Meetings of both the House of Representatives and the National Assembly have been adjourned following a protest from the UML.The UML has been continuously demanding the formation of a high level-probe committee to investigate the 100 kg gold smuggling case. The ruling government has said the CIB is investigating the case and there is no need to form such a committee.The next meeting of the lower house has been called on August 14 while the next meeting of the National Assembly has been called for August 16.Police have taken Nepali Congress lawmaker Sunil Sharma into custody. A team from Nepal Police, Central Investigation Bureau (CIB) arrested him on August 10 on charges of fraud related to his education certificate, said Nepal Police spokesperson DIG Kuber Kadayat.The CIB has also informed the Federal Parliament Secretariat about Sharma’s arrest.Chief of CIB AIG Kiran Bajracharya has written to the speaker of the House of Representatives about why Sharma had been arrested. Sharma, who was elected from Morang 3 under the first-past-the-post electoral system from the Nepali Congress, has been arrested in accordance with the law. This action was taken due to the need for an investigation into a charge related to a fake certificate of academic qualification, says the CIB.CIB says Sharma’s I.Sc. certificate had not been verified by the National Examinations Board located in Sano Thimi, Bhaktapur.As per the CIB, certain doctors have obtained registration from the Nepal Medical Council by submitting counterfeit academic certificates from India. These individuals also participated in the examinations conducted by the Council to obtain their registration certificates.As of August 11, six doctors have been arrested on these charges. Along with Sharma, the CIB has arrested Shraddha Shilpakar, Ranjit Kumar Yadav, Amit Chaudhary, Ram Babu Yadav and Arina Shah.The meeting of the House of Representatives has been adjourned again after the UML obstructed the house again.This comes after the UML’s demand to form a high-level probe committee to investigate the 100 kg gold smuggling case was not agreed upon by the ruling government.The UML had agreed to end the house impasse on Tuesday. But not satisfied by the answers given to them by Home Minister Narayan Kaji Shrestha, the UML has decided to continue to obstruct the house proceedings.The Parliamentary Hearing Committee has called for complaints against Justice Bishwombhar Prasad Shrestha who has been recommended for the post of chief justice by the Constitutional Council.Shrestha is currently the acting chief justice of the Supreme Court after Hari Krishna Karki retired on August 5.The committee meeting called for a complaint against Shrestha within 10 days.The UML has said it will no longer obstruct House of Representatives proceedings.The opposition party has been obstructing both houses demanding the formation of a high-level probe committee to investigate the 100 kg gold smuggling case.The UML said it was ready to permit today’s House session under the stipulation that Deputy Prime Minister and Home Minister Narayan Kaji Shrestha presents the government’s stance regarding the gold smuggling scandal. However, the opposition party has stated that it will stage a protest if the Home Minister fails to commit to establishing a high-level committee to investigate the aforementioned scandal.Despite a gathering of senior leaders from major political parties along with Speaker Devraj Ghimire at the Prime Minister’s residence in Baluwatar, aimed at resolving the impasse in the proceedings of the House, the meeting concluded without reaching a definite resolution.Speaker Devraj Ghimire is holding a discussion with top leaders of major political parties regarding the removal of obstruction at the House of Representatives.The discussion is scheduled to be held on Monday, said Ghimire’s secretariat.On Sunday, Speaker Ghimire engaged in discussions with the chief whips of major political parties regarding the matter. However, due to the unchanging stances of both the ruling and opposition parties on the 100 kg gold smuggling case, the meeting has been postponed to Monday.The Speaker has summoned a meeting with the senior leaders of the major political parties for Monday at noon, aiming to resolve the deadlock in the parliament, according to his secretariat.During the meeting on Sunday, the chief whips of the ruling parties expressed the view that there was no requirement to establish a high-level investigation committee for probing corruption cases, including the gold smuggling case. They asserted that the government agencies possessed sufficient capability to undertake necessary actions in this regard.The main opposition, the UML, has been obstructing both houses calling for the formation of a high-level investigation committee.Following that, Ghimire, on August 1, adjourned the house until August 7.Further, it has ensured inclusive provisions and other provisions have increased women’s participation comparatively at the local level as well. With all these provisions in Nepal’s constitution, the status of women’s representation at the local level is still unsatisfactory due to the loopholes of the law, which have hampered their representation.In 2017, Nepal marked a significant milestone by conducting its first elections after the adoption of the new constitution in 2015. This event was notable as it was the first time in more than 17 years that the country held elections at the local level under the federal republican political system. It was also a successful year in terms of women’s political empowerment and social inclusion as it saw representation from women and marginalised voters and candidates. The first local-level election after Republican Nepal was held in three phases.There were a total of 148,364 candidates and among them only 57,843 were female. Election Result book, 2074 (Page 31) published by Election Commission shows that 3,541 representatives were elected with which the number of female elected representatives was 14,352. It is 40.95 per cent. Out of 6,743 wards, 173 wards had no candidates of Dalit female candidates and women’s representation was hampered due to null candidacy.The second local-level election under the federal structure took place on May 13, 2022. According to the Election Commission, the number of adult voters was 17,733,723. Out of which, 8,741,530 were women. This is 49.29 per cent of the total voters. Election result book, 2022 (Page18) shows that from the local level election 2022, 35,221 representatives were to be elected directly. Among them, 14,239 seats are mandatory and secured for female representatives.However, the number of total elected female representatives in the local-level election in 2022 is 14,466. In this election, 123 wards out of 6,743 total wards had no candidate from Dalit female member and one ward was null in female member candidacy.The data analysed is from the latest election result book of the Election Commission. As per this, 41.21 per cent of women are among the total elected in 2022 compared to 40.9 per cent in 2017. In the first federal local level election 14,402 women got elected in 2022 compared to 14,352 in 2017. Based on the statistics, it is evident that there was a decline in the number of women contestants in the 2022 local elections compared to the 2017 elections. However, despite this downward trend, the final number of women who were successfully elected in the 2022 elections appears to be slightly higher than that of the 2017 elections.This clearly indicates the higher winnability displayed by the women candidates in the 2022 local elections. However, it has been found in practice that women are made candidates due to the compulsion of law and not for meaningful representation. For example, among two major posts at the local level, one is mandatory for female candidates where parties are compelled to contest female candidates but not by interest. The same thing is found in two female members of the ward committee. As a result, most of the heads of local-level and ward committees are male. In the last local level election, out of heads of 753 local level, only 25 females got elected as head of the local level. This number was 18 in 2017. It shows that the leading position is just made for males.The legislative intent for women’s representation is not just for the minimum but at least 50 per cent and in major posts as well. But the 15th Annual Report (2022) of the National Women Commission shows a very low representation of women in major posts from the last elections at the local level.The constitution of Nepal has highly emphasised ensuring gender justice almost in every sphere in comparison to previous constitutions.The local-level election is conducted on the basis of the Local-level Election Act, 2016. This act has ensured at least 50 per cent of women’s representation in major two posts at the local level and 40 per cent as a whole.Section 17(4) of the act states that while nominating either for head or deputy head of the local level, the political parties should arrange in such a way that at least a candidate for any one of two head positions should be women. At the same time, the further elaboration of the provision states that if the political parties contest for only one post of the head or deputy head of the local level, the above-mentioned provision will not be compulsory. Here we see the loopholes in the law. The same is found in the nomination of ward members as well which hampers women’s representation.The spirit of the law is to increase the meaningful representation of women but the play of parties in loops of law has hampered it. For that it should be provisioned that even an alliance of parties should not affect their representation, the reserved seat for females can be one of the solutions as well. So that in major positions, the political parties only contest female candidates and obviously one of the females will win.Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal will be visiting China in September.Minister for Foreign Affairs, NP Saud said Dahal will be going to China in the third or the fourth week of September.“Preparations are in place for the prime minister to visit China,” said Saud.Dahal recently went to India and met his Indian counterpart, Narendra Modi.The Constitutional Council has nominated Bishwombhar Prasad Shrestha for the chief justice’s position that will be vacant after Hari Krishna Karki retires on August 5.The Council meeting held at Prime Minister’s Office, Singha Durbar on Thursday recommended Shrestha as the chief justice, informed National Assembly chair, Ganesh Prasad Timilsina.Shrestha is the seniormost justice of the Supreme Court.Now, the parliamentary hearing committee, which is yet to be established, has to endorse his name for the appointment. If appointed, Shrestha will lead the country’s judiciary for around 14 months as he is due to retire on October 2024.The government has stated that there is no requirement to establish a high-level probe committee to investigate the 100 kg gold smuggling case, as an ongoing investigation is already in progress.At a press conference organised at the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology to make public the decisions of the Council of Ministers on Thursday, Communications Minister Rekha Sharma clarified that a high-level probe committee was unnecessary as the Department of Revenue Investigation has started investigating the case.Also the spokesperson of the government, Minister Sharma urged not to cast doubt on the investigation being conducted by the Department, saying the incumbent government is moving ahead with the determination to control irregularities, corruption and smuggling.“The Department has now been carrying out an investigation. The government is about to get to the source of the scam. The government has not seen the necessity of a high-level probe committee,” she shared.Presenting the fact that high-level probe committees were not formed to investigate the incidences of gold smuggling in the past, she urged to allow the investigation being carried out by the Department to reach its conclusion.Both the House of Representatives and National Assembly have been obstructed by the UML demanding the formating of a high-level probe committee.UML disrupted the meeting of the National Assembly on Thursday demanding action against the gold smugglers. Due to disruption, the meeting has been adjourned until August 7.Before the upper house could proceed, UML member Bhairav ​​Sundar Shrestha announced the meeting would not be allowed until the government takes action against those involved in the 100-kg gold smuggling case.The UML has been demanding a formation of a high-level investigation committee to probe the case. The opposition obstructed the proceedings of the House of Representatives on August 1. The government has not formed the committee yet.The meeting of both houses has been called for August 7.Nepali Congress leader Uddab Thapa has once again been appointed as the chief minister of Koshi province.With this appointment, he has become the chief minister for the second time in 26 days.On July 27, the Supreme Court annulled his appointment as the chief minister stating he was appointed unconstitutionally.On July 6, Thapa claimed the post of chief minister and submitted a letter to the state chief Parshuram Khapung stating he had the support of Speaker Baburam Gautam. Relying on this support, the state chief, Khapung, appointed Thapa as the chief minister.The Supreme Court in its verdict has said that the Speaker did not have the authority to support any candidate during government formation. Gautam, in doing so, had gone against the constitution of the country.Following that, Gautam has been forced to resign as the Speaker after which Thapa staked his claim to become the chief minister again.In the 93-member state assembly, a majority of 47 votes is needed. Thapa has garnered 47 votes in favour and 46 against.Despite having all the authority, it seems that the chief representatives of the local government failed to deliver their duties as per citizens’ concerns. The reason is working under the pressure of their own party pressure along with the leader’s and followers’ interest, as a result, the service delivery is not seen as satisfactory.Nepal’s constitution has given the right to local government to make 22 laws and 15 common rights as needed. To illustrate further, to work under their own area; the constitution has given administrative, executive and some judicial rights. But chief representatives are not able to make and implement this type of law, it can be assumed that they are helpless due to their party’s interest. However, an independent candidate is seen as more free and flexible as they do not have the blessing hands of any political party. As a result, they can perform work freely without any political pressure. Kathmandu’s Mayor Balendra Shah and Dharan’s Mayor Harka Sampang Rai are living examples. It is said that the local level or local government is the pillar of democracy, and the overall development of the nation depends on local government activities. In particular, the local government has the power to take decisions that suit local needs and conditions, and it has the right to plan and coordinate service delivery in its area. To institutionalise and strengthen democracy, the greatest potential is seen at the local level. If representatives are directly concerned with the citizen’s issues and are accountable, improvements can be made at the time of service delivery and governance. However, due to political fluctuation, it has not been done accordingly.In the current scenario, people are more fascinated towards independent representatives. Examining the people’s psychology, an independent representative can work freely in metropolitan cities, sub-metropolitan cities, and rural municipalities as well as ward levels. If we can practice a non-party flag bearer representative at the local levels, the overall development will gear up and there will be no party interruption. As a consequence, the development will be sustainable and the representatives can do their duties freely. Comparatively independent candidates can engage more with communities to seek their input and involve them at the time of decision-making. This has been seen through Kathmandu metropolitan city’s Mayor who takes decisions on any matter quickly and productively. Whether it comes to not picking up the waste materials from the Sighadurbar to destroying the illegal construction of high-profile people. He is able to do them because he does relate to any party and does not have to work under follower interest, party pressure and many more. Likewise, if a flag bearer candidate was elected they need to think and need the party’s approval before executing any of their plans.Similarly, Dharan sub-metropolitan city’s Mayor is also popular for his work and has great support from the people. His remarkable work is bringing drinking water with public support. There are a lot of examples which show that an independent candidate can work freely with public sympathy in any matter.Political history shows that local level representative related to political parties could not meet their manifesto, which they distributed during the election period for public assurance. Comparatively, it seems that independent candidates work as per the public’s sentiment.In the democratic countries of the world such as the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada and even in India, there is a practice of choosing independent candidates at the local levels. As a result, they get sustainable development and citizens’ rights that are well preserved. The local government has given more results and the real definition of democracy is well utilised. This may be one of the major factors these nations have gone through drastic development in a short period of time.If Nepal can implement this practice, it will be far better than the ongoing system, as there will be no political deadlock. Then there will be equal budget allocation. Moreover, there will be no influence of sister organisations, which ultimately leads to the development process, and till now the vote of the general public is more decisive than the party practice. So keeping all these things in mind, if political parties would not nominate their candidates in the local elections then general people can elect their leaders freely without the party’s concern. The House of Representatives has been adjourned until August 7.This comes after the ruling coalition and UML failed to come to an agreement on Tuesday leading to yet another house obstruction.The UML has been demanding a formation of a high-level committee to investigate the 100 kg gold smuggling case.The UML had obstructed the house on Monday too.The meeting of the House of Representatives called for Monday has been adjourned.This comes after the main opposition party UML demanded a formation of a high-level investigation committee to investigate the 100 kg gold smuggling case.The ruling party does not want to form a committee right now.The UML on July 26 obstructed the house meeting demanding the government to form a high-level investigation committee.Sources in the Speaker’s Secretariat said that after the UML took the same stand on Monday, Speaker Devraj Ghimire adjourned the meeting of the House of Representatives until 1 pm on Tuesday at the request of the government.Earlier on Monday morning, top leaders of the Nepali Congress, UML and Maoist Center sat for a discussion.According to the principle of checks and balances, the state system is sustainable and people-oriented only if all three parts of the state can function effectively. The best interests of the country and its people can only be achieved by the smooth functioning of the state powers.  The parliamentary system is the most widely accepted in the world so far. It emphasises the balance of power with the distribution of state authority, which can also broadly include the power of the parliament to impeach the authority of the executive post. In the modern world, the parliamentary system features direct election and selection of members of parliament. It includes a directly elected House of Representatives (HoR) as the lower house and an upper house with proportional, inclusive, and eminent citizens chosen through various means. The parliament serves as a platform for lawmakers and facilitates the practice of the legal process and guides future actions.However in the present context, Nepal’s parliament has become weak due to the Prime Minister’s desire to hold onto power, the minister’s indifference to the suffering of the people, the fragile performance of the opposition and the lethargy of the parliamentarians. This questions the future of democracy in Nepal. Nepal’s parliamentarians have failed to raise people’s voices and questions. They are hopeless. They are struggling to get adequate time to speak in the parliament, and whenever they get a chance they speak without proper study and homework. Those who criticise the government with good arguments and raise people’s concerns and voices are ignored. The positive voice disappears like water bubbles. The creativity of parliamentarians has been killed and cold water is poured on the enthusiastic young parliamentarians who aim to do something for the people. The dream of the youth has been chiselled, civil rights are being curtailed. Nepal’s lawmakers are found to give priority to the self-interest of the party rather than serving their community. It is not clear whether they are working for the rights of the class, gender, region, or community that they stand for. Why are they not able to fulfil their influential role? Minimising the roles of the parliament seizes people’s rights and prosperity. Nepal’s parliamentarians should be like the oak trees, which stand even when the wind blows from the opposite direction. Harassing lawmakers means the loss of rights of people in the foggy and smoggy ground. The belief that politics is the best policy among all policies that guide in making policies in all areas including education, health, finance, foreign affairs, diplomacy, transportation, communication, technology, etc. has now become a pathetic statement as the state of people’s hope and trust is in deficit. As the parliamentary system is a political system based on consensus, understanding, tolerance and moderation, what is the recognition of the opposition in the parliamentary system? If the opposition bench remains empty, all businesses get postponed and motions of the parliament are not discussed on that day. If the opposition is bypassed, the system will be authoritarian. The position of the opposition leader in the parliamentary system is the same as that of the waiting prime minister. The access of opposition leaders to every constitutional decision of the government is ensured because they can prevent the government from doing unparliamentary activities by warning them. In Nepal, the institutional devaluation of the opposition, which holds an important place in the development of democracy, is constantly increasing.  Even in the three-decade-long Panchayat system, a partyless system without opposition, there was limited freedom to criticise the government on policy matters that were within the scope of the constitution. Since 1990, the existence of the opposition has been recognised politically, institutionally and constitutionally. Despite occasional deviations, the opposition has tried to hold the government accountable for issues such as policy distortions, corruption and abuse of power within the state machinery. The main question is why the creativity of the people’s representatives is not recognised when considering, discussing, and taking action on issues concerning the rights of the common people and the implementation of the constitution. Parliament is a place for the people’s representatives. It is Nepal’s apex body. But when will the situation change, and Nepal’s parliamentarians will no longer be rendered helpless and their roles be acknowledged as valuable rather than worthless?If the government disregards the voice of the parliament, the government is considered to be disrespectful towards parliamentary tradition, practice and dignity. These activities will weaken democracy. Communists believe that parliament is a shop that sells dog meat by showing the head of a he-goat. Are Nepal’s parliamentarians trying to prove this statement true? The prime minister, ministers and leaders of the government are confirming that the parliament and the parliamentary system should make the people omnipotent, but the people are being treated like animals. Due to the lack of common understanding among the parties, there is a continuation of collusion with external powers and handing over the country’s natural resources to foreigners. But it can be assumed that the country is moving towards regression due to the state of affairs of the parliament, which is becoming irrelevant. In Singha Durbar and Baluwatar, there is a contradiction between what they say and what they do. The parliament is supposed to make the people confident about the rule of law, but parliamentary practices these days in Nepal are being done selfishly to hold the parliament, hostage. Parliament is becoming a victim of neglect. The parliamentary system is in shambles. Sadly, the belief in the principle that the state serves its people is dying. Now populist politics is dominant. The awakening of stable politics with trust is the current national need and fundamental public expectation. But why are people’s representatives who earn from people’s taxes unable to speak according to people’s expectations? This is a matter of grave concern of general interest. Most of the lawmakers in Nepal speak in short bursts. They speak merely for formality. Parliamentarians speak only for the benefit of their political party and overlook the issue that holds national interest. There are only a few lawmakers who come with the necessary homework and put their case in parliament effectively. However, those lawmakers are not appreciated except by the parliamentarians of their party. Another problem with our parliament is the parliamentarian does not get adequate time to speak. This problem must be solved through certain procedures. While there are also parliamentarians who speak just for formality. The performance of parliamentarians is doubtful. It seems like they are defaming the parliament in a planned way or deliberately switching off the spirit of the parliament. The parliament is supposed to make the people confident about the rule of law. But in Nepal, some selfish parliamentary practices are undermining this trust by holding the parliament hostage. Parliament is becoming a victim of neglect. The parliamentary system is in shambles. The sad aspect is that people have lost their belief in the dignity and power of the state. They do not expect to be helped by the state.  At present, populist politics is dominant. It is not easy for parties to fulfil constitutional responsibility and moral obligations in cheap politics and cheap style.To maintain its dignity, it is necessary to make the parliament a centre of people’s faith. If there will be a reliable government, responsible opposition and creative parliamentarians, trust in the parliament will be awakened. As a result, it will contribute to the development of Nepali democracy. Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal has returned home after completing a six-day visit to Italy.Dahal returned home on Friday morning after participating in the Food System Summit +2 organized by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in Rome in Italy.Dahal left for Italy on July 22. During the summit, he emphasised the importance of boosting investments in agriculture in least-developed countries. He highlighted that this step is crucial to address the challenges posed by climate change, and other disasters, and to enhance their adaptive capabilities.During his stay in Rome, Dahal also met his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina and held a bilateral meeting. Major discussions were held between the two on cooperation in agriculture, the hydropower sector and various issues of regional cooperation.Dahal had a meeting with UN Secretary-General Antonio Gutterres. During their discussion, they delved into various topics, including environmental issues, food security, and ways to bolster the relationship between Nepal and the United Nations.He also had a meeting with the World Food Programme (WFP)’s Executive Director Cindy Mccan, FAO Director-General Qu Dongyu and International Fund for Agriculture Development’s President Alvaro Lario.The Supreme Court has annulled the appointment of Uddab Thapa as the chief minister of Koshi province.The divisional bench of Justices Ishwar Prasad Khatiwada, Anand Mohan Bhattarai and Til Prasad Shrestha annulled Thapa’s appointment.On July 6, Nepali Congress leader Thapa claimed the post of chief minister and submitted a letter to the state chief Parshuram Khapung stating he had the support of Speaker Baburam Gautam. Relying on this support, the state chief, Khapung, appointed Thapa as the chief minister.Following Thapa’s appointment, outgoing chief minister UML leader Hikmat Kumar Karki filed a writ petition at the Supreme Court. The petition argued that forming a government with the support of the Speaker, who holds a neutral role, is illegal.Karki has claimed he should be reinstated as the chief minister of Koshi province as per Article 168 (3) of the Constitution which states that the leader of the largest party in the provincial assembly should be appointed as the Chief Minister.The Supreme Court in its verdict has said that the Speaker did not have the authority to support any candidate during government formation. Gautam, in doing so, had gone against the constitution of the country.The Supreme Court has declined to re-elect Karki as the Chief Minister, rejecting his claim and refusing to grant him the mandate to appoint the Chief Minister according to his wishes.Karki was removed from his position as chief minister after failing to secure the vote of confidence from the Provincial Assembly in a ballot conducted in Biratnagar on June 30.The Ministry of Home Affairs on Tuesday sacked DSP Thug Bahadur KC from his post.Home Secretary Dinesh Bhattarai removed KC from the Nepal Police service as per the recommendation from the Police Headquarters, said DIG Kuber Kadayat, spokesperson of Nepal Police.Police Spokesman DIG Kuwer Kadayat said that DSP KC has received his dismissal letter from the ministry. KC, however, will be eligible for a government post in the future.KC was suspended from the post on a charge of accepting a bribe from a gold trader while working in the Area Police Office, Butwal.The Ministry of Finance has appointed joint secretary Tok Raj Pandey as the head of the customs office at Tribhuvan Airport.Finance Ministry spokesperson Dhaniram Sharma said Pandey was given the responsibility after removing the previous customs chief Arun Pokharel following the 100-kg gold smuggling case.On Sunday, Pandey was transferred to the Ministry of Finance from the Department of National Personnel Records where he was serving as the director general.Pokharel, who has been on leave since July 2, has been removed after the 100-kg gold smuggling case happened during his tenure.  He has been on leave ever since the police started investigating the case of 9.5 kg of gold being smuggled through vapes from the airport on December 25, 2022.It is essential for everyone to comprehend this seasonal eye condition and take appropriate preventive measures to safeguard our eye health during the warmer months.As the summer season arrives, Nepal faces a recurring challenge with numerous cases of conjunctivitis, commonly known as pink eye, surfacing in different regions. The incessant rainfall over recent weeks has contributed to the spread of this eye infection in the Tarai region, Kathmandu Valley, and other provinces. The situation is worsened by waterlogging in several regions, and with the monsoon season underway, there has been a significant surge in conjunctivitis and eye flu cases.The unusual showers, flooding, and higher atmospheric moisture levels have created an ideal environment for the proliferation of bacteria and viruses, resulting in a drastic increase in infections. The rise in humidity and water contamination further exacerbates the nationwide spike in conjunctivitis cases.Summer conjunctivitis can stem from various sources, making us all susceptible to exposure. The main causes and modes of transmission include:Awareness is the first step towards overcoming any challenge. Recognising the symptoms of summer conjunctivitis is vital for early detection and prompt management. Keep an eye out for the following hallmark signs:To protect ourselves and others from summer conjunctivitis, we can take specific preventive measures:In case you are diagnosed with conjunctivitis, follow these steps:As the summer season approaches and we all engage in various outdoor activities, the risk of summer conjunctivitis becomes more prevalent for everyone. Let’s be vigilant and take necessary precautions to protect our eye health. By staying informed, educating ourselves, and taking preventive measures, we can ensure a safer and healthier summer for all. Remember, seeking professional medical advice is crucial for accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment. Together, we can safeguard our eye health and make the most of the summer season!Further, it has ensured inclusive provisions and other provisions have increased women’s participation comparatively at the local level as well. With all these provisions in Nepal’s constitution, the status of women’s representation at the local level is still unsatisfactory due to the loopholes of the law, which have hampered their representation.In 2017, Nepal marked a significant milestone by conducting its first elections after the adoption of the new constitution in 2015. This event was notable as it was the first time in more than 17 years that the country held elections at the local level under the federal republican political system. It was also a successful year in terms of women’s political empowerment and social inclusion as it saw representation from women and marginalised voters and candidates. The first local-level election after Republican Nepal was held in three phases.There were a total of 148,364 candidates and among them only 57,843 were female. Election Result book, 2074 (Page 31) published by Election Commission shows that 3,541 representatives were elected with which the number of female elected representatives was 14,352. It is 40.95 per cent. Out of 6,743 wards, 173 wards had no candidates of Dalit female candidates and women’s representation was hampered due to null candidacy.The second local-level election under the federal structure took place on May 13, 2022. According to the Election Commission, the number of adult voters was 17,733,723. Out of which, 8,741,530 were women. This is 49.29 per cent of the total voters. Election result book, 2022 (Page18) shows that from the local level election 2022, 35,221 representatives were to be elected directly. Among them, 14,239 seats are mandatory and secured for female representatives.However, the number of total elected female representatives in the local-level election in 2022 is 14,466. In this election, 123 wards out of 6,743 total wards had no candidate from Dalit female member and one ward was null in female member candidacy.The data analysed is from the latest election result book of the Election Commission. As per this, 41.21 per cent of women are among the total elected in 2022 compared to 40.9 per cent in 2017. In the first federal local level election 14,402 women got elected in 2022 compared to 14,352 in 2017. Based on the statistics, it is evident that there was a decline in the number of women contestants in the 2022 local elections compared to the 2017 elections. However, despite this downward trend, the final number of women who were successfully elected in the 2022 elections appears to be slightly higher than that of the 2017 elections.This clearly indicates the higher winnability displayed by the women candidates in the 2022 local elections. However, it has been found in practice that women are made candidates due to the compulsion of law and not for meaningful representation. For example, among two major posts at the local level, one is mandatory for female candidates where parties are compelled to contest female candidates but not by interest. The same thing is found in two female members of the ward committee. As a result, most of the heads of local-level and ward committees are male. In the last local level election, out of heads of 753 local level, only 25 females got elected as head of the local level. This number was 18 in 2017. It shows that the leading position is just made for males.The legislative intent for women’s representation is not just for the minimum but at least 50 per cent and in major posts as well. But the 15th Annual Report (2022) of the National Women Commission shows a very low representation of women in major posts from the last elections at the local level.The constitution of Nepal has highly emphasised ensuring gender justice almost in every sphere in comparison to previous constitutions.The local-level election is conducted on the basis of the Local-level Election Act, 2016. This act has ensured at least 50 per cent of women’s representation in major two posts at the local level and 40 per cent as a whole.Section 17(4) of the act states that while nominating either for head or deputy head of the local level, the political parties should arrange in such a way that at least a candidate for any one of two head positions should be women. At the same time, the further elaboration of the provision states that if the political parties contest for only one post of the head or deputy head of the local level, the above-mentioned provision will not be compulsory. Here we see the loopholes in the law. The same is found in the nomination of ward members as well which hampers women’s representation.The spirit of the law is to increase the meaningful representation of women but the play of parties in loops of law has hampered it. For that it should be provisioned that even an alliance of parties should not affect their representation, the reserved seat for females can be one of the solutions as well. So that in major positions, the political parties only contest female candidates and obviously one of the females will win.“It has been a busy few months for me. But I always like coming back home and eating food prepared by my mother and spending time with family,” says Waters from his home in North Carolina.Curtis Waters known as Abhinav Bastakoti, burst onto the scene with Stunnin in 2020. The song became so popular, it changed his life. Since then, he has been constantly on the move, creating music and touring extensively across the US as he strives to create music that resonates with people from different walks of life.Now, Waters intends to carry on with his passion, hoping to touch the hearts of people through his music. He also aspires to extend his reach to Nepal, with the desire to perform a show for his fans in the country where he was born.“So many Nepalis come to my show. I don’t know why but as I have aged, I have started developing connections with Nepal and Nepali,” he says adding he makes foreigners say Jay Nepal during his shows.Since his childhood, Curtis Waters has harboured a deep interest in music and dreamt of achieving popularity through it. And to an extent, he has realised his dream.All of this started when he came to Nepal when he was 14 years old for his Bratabandha. Given the poor internet connectivity and limited social connections, he began entertaining himself with the music production software on his laptop eventually learning to create beats.“I had had my first break up and wanted an escape. I found it through music,” said Waters.As he returned to the US, he started to spend most of his time inside his room making music instead of going to school.“I did not enjoy school. I only went to make my mom happy,” he said.This is why as soon as he returned from school, he would rush to his room and sit in front of his computer to make music.While other children of his age were busy watching cartoons and playing outdoors with their friends, Waters was engaged in making music and performing other creative things. Despite his love for music, he did not want to study music. A free-spirited person, Curtis Waters did not want to be bounded by rules. Having witnessed numerous individuals who have studied music struggle to create good music, he felt compelled to chart his own path and do things his own way.“I love that I have been able to do it my way. Everything I needed to know was on the internet and I made use of that,” he says.His dedication to music has been yielding remarkable results. His breakout hit Stunnin’ achieved significant recognition, reaching the impressive #3 position on Rolling Stone magazine’s Breakthrough 25 Chart for June 2020. Moreover, the song’s success extended beyond music charts, as it was even featured in a Mercedes-Benz advertisement.“Sometimes I look back and think how crazy all that was,” he says adding he did not expect the song to do so well.Curtis Waters continues to be asked how and why Stunnin’ achieved such success, but he finds it challenging to answer the question, given that he, himself, did not particularly like the song.“I made this song secretly inside a locked room so that nobody could hear such a stupid song. Despite the song sounding stupid I uploaded it without any reason during lockdown.”Waters believes that the song’s popularity was influenced by the right timing. During the lockdown, when people were feeling down and confined to their homes all day, they came across a fun song. The timing coincided with the rising popularity of TikTok, and many people created TikTok videos using the song, which further contributed to its success.“I do think luck also played a role. If I had released it now I do not think it would have done so well,” he says.Since then, many things have changed in Curtis Waters’ musical career, with the most significant transformation evident in his song-making process. He acknowledges going through various phases, including times when he pursued commercial success and attempted to create a song like Stunnin’. However, his approach has evolved, and he no longer prioritises chasing commercial hits, opting for a different musical direction.“At this moment I’ve found more fulfilment ignoring external validation and making art that feels authentic to me,” says Waters.Following the release of his debut album Pity Party in 2020, Curtis Waters has now launched a new album titled The Bad Son.Waters describes Bad Son as an album that resonates with his personal journey, symbolising his journey from Nepal to Canada at the age of 10, a move he made with his family. Through his new album, Curtis Waters seeks to make his younger self proud for the journey he undertook, moving to a new country from his native land, adapting to a unique culture, and bravely confronting racism along the way.“This album is like a movie. The songs included in the albums do not represent different genres but different scenes. In one song the singer is at a club and in another song he is somewhere else,” he says. The theme for this album was developed when he was 14 years old. But he was only able to execute it aged 23.Waters reveals that he has been an emotional person since childhood, and The Bad Son album contains elements reflecting this aspect of his personality. He fondly recalls spending time with his father, writing poems together as a way to distract himself and express the depth of his emotions. The album serves as a heartfelt expression of his inner world and experiences.“When I was a kid I used to feel lonely and depressed. To overcome those feelings, I occupied myself in creative activities,” he said.Despite gaining popularity through his music, Curtis Waters found it challenging to manage his newfound fame at the beginning. The pressures and demands that come with being in the public eye has been overwhelming and he says he is leaning to deal with it.“Initially it made me anxious and I found it difficult but now that it’s all settled down it’s not difficult at all,” says Waters. “I’m not famous enough for it to make a huge impact on my day-to-day life I still feel like the same person.”Instead of using the name given by his parents, Curtis Waters opted for a new name. The primary reason behind this decision was to connect and resonate with a broader foreign audience.When Waters moved to Canada, nobody would understand his name. That made it hard for him which is why in his teens he gave himself a new name which everyone could understand.“I also picked a Western name to be safe from racism. But these days I don’t like this name because it was the name I kept out of fear,” says Waters.With growing time he says he has begun understanding the importance of his real identity. That is why he wants to make songs for the Nepali audience too. But he does not feel comfortable doing so as his Nepali is not that great.“I left Nepal when I was 10. I speak Nepali like a 10-year-old. I do not have the confidence right now but I hope with time I can express myself in Nepali,” he said.In his effort to connect with his roots, Curtis Waters intends to visit Nepal and spend time in the country. He has a strong desire to immerse himself in the culture, learn the language, and use this experience as inspiration to write songs that resonate with his Nepali heritage.“I really want to do that. Hopefully, things will align for me to do that,” he said.Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal will be visiting China in September.Minister for Foreign Affairs, NP Saud said Dahal will be going to China in the third or the fourth week of September.“Preparations are in place for the prime minister to visit China,” said Saud.Dahal recently went to India and met his Indian counterpart, Narendra Modi.Speaker Devraj Ghimire is holding a discussion with top leaders of major political parties regarding the removal of obstruction at the House of Representatives.The discussion is scheduled to be held on Monday, said Ghimire’s secretariat.On Sunday, Speaker Ghimire engaged in discussions with the chief whips of major political parties regarding the matter. However, due to the unchanging stances of both the ruling and opposition parties on the 100 kg gold smuggling case, the meeting has been postponed to Monday.The Speaker has summoned a meeting with the senior leaders of the major political parties for Monday at noon, aiming to resolve the deadlock in the parliament, according to his secretariat.During the meeting on Sunday, the chief whips of the ruling parties expressed the view that there was no requirement to establish a high-level investigation committee for probing corruption cases, including the gold smuggling case. They asserted that the government agencies possessed sufficient capability to undertake necessary actions in this regard.The main opposition, the UML, has been obstructing both houses calling for the formation of a high-level investigation committee.Following that, Ghimire, on August 1, adjourned the house until August 7.This moral, ethical and legal minefield has always garnered controversy and has the potential to rock the very foundation of culture and prevalent society.Euthanasia has divided society and the country which have instituted functional systems or are in the process of introducing one have been very cautious and have introduced the term sensitively. The process has been ongoing with society members’ participation and the discussions have been open. Thus introduced processes have been all-encompassing, morally ethically and legally binding.Questions might arise about the need for such a process, this is centred on the right of individuals to a dignified, painless death. The debates on the civil rights of an individual have processed to euthanasia. Rapid development in medical investigations and therapeutics together with improvement in quality of life has increased life expectancy globally. This longevity is welcomed and enjoyed till one remains functional physically and mentally. When old age becomes more and more care dependent then one tends to lose the desire to live. The situation becomes worse when one is inflicted with life-threatening chronic diseases like cancers and incapacitating diseases like Alzheimer’s, multiple sclerosis, parkinsonism, last stages of COPD, and renal diseases where death is imminent albeit with prolonged suffering.So global consciousness was awakened to address the plight of these individuals, where advocates were questioning the rights of these individuals for painless death. The process was started long back with the choice for the addition of DNR in the chart of old patients, which implies do not resuscitate in the case when the heart stops beating. We as medical professionals have counselled family members about switching ventilators in brain-dead patients. These chronically incapacitated patients wanted the right to choose death at their chosen time.As these are responsible procedures legally and medically, binding criteria are set. Counselling and deliberation to arrive at a decision are given such that when such a decision is made all parties involved are accepted. This is not a hasty process and only a few countries like France, whose service has been functional and Australia which is to introduce it this year. This process is to start when patients argued about their rights and asked lawmakers and parliamentarians for a painless exit, when despite all medical interventions and therapeutics all they were waiting for was a painful, debilitating prolonged, uncertain wait for death. They wanted the last right as an individual for a dignified death, after finalising all their affairs and after proper goodbyes to their loved ones. The grieving families were also all accepting because planned death spared them to withstand their loved ones suffering and slowly fading away. This made the grieving process a bit bearable and a bit more easily.Nepal is in the time frame when Nepali society needs to be introduced to euthanasia. Such that healthy robust discussion is started, we as a society need to start thinking about how as a society we want to progress. Nepal like the rest of the world has an increasing elderly population and increasing prevalence of these incapacitating incurable chronic diseases. So we are bound to face a similar situation as West sooner or later.Introducing such a facility requires first creating awareness and grievance alleviation, which can be started presently.“He harvested different parts and we even ate its seeds. I remember him extracting ghee (clarified butter) from it. He was so adamant about conserving these trees,” says Chepang.As time passed, the family’s interest in the chiuri trees they once cherished dwindled, and sadly, these trees gradually disappeared. Alternately, Chepang developed a strong passion for beekeeping. However, there was a noticeable decline in honey harvest recently, leaving Chepang and others from the community baffled as they could not pinpoint the cause initially. Eventually, they realised that the decrease in honey production was directly linked to the decline in chiuri trees in the area.Now, the locals are getting back to their roots. Realising the importance of the trees they once did not have much regard for, residents in Silinge have taken proactive steps to incorporate cultivation plans for these trees into their activities. “Our focus is on establishing a sustainable ecosystem that facilitates planting, harvesting, and trading, creating better income opportunities for the community,” says Chepang who adds everyone in the area is now pivoting towards planting and preserving chuiri trees.“I now get why my grandfather was so adamant about saving these trees,” says Chepang.The chiuri trees grow somewhere between 20 to 25 metres in height and are usually seen growing in areas between 300 to 1,500 metres above sea level. In Nepal, it is commonly seen in Makawanpur, Chitwan, Dhading, Jajarkot, and Dadheldhura districts with several pockets richer in number. There have been four sub-species of the plant identified in the country. The species share a deep bond with the Chepang communities that reside in these areas too. “The community used to give chiuri trees as dowry to their daughters. But with the changing times, perspectives and the decreasing number of trees, the tradition has been irregular,” says Dinesh Chepang.The dowry tradition, he says, was set in place because of the many benefits of the chiuri or butter tree (Diploknema Butyracea). Bishnu Prasad Acharya, Divisional Forest Officer Rapti, has been an advocate to talk about chiuri and its importance to not just the Chepang community but to humankind. Acharya says that these trees have numerous benefits. “Its seeds are rich in oil content and are used to produce chiuri ghee. It is used for cooking, used as a lubricant or moisturiser, and can serve as a base for cosmetics due to its high protein and essential fatty acids content (about 55 per cent).”Acharya says the fruit produced from the tree is juicy and nutritious as well.There are lots of benefits. The seeds can be eaten as they are very nutritious, and they can be used to make other food items too even local alcoholic beverages not just humans, animals, birds and insects are also fond of this.“Bats and bees are particularly fond of its seed and nectar. While they are the best pollinator for the chiuri tree too,” says Acharya.But, in unparalleled events, where the community grew interested in beekeeping for honey, they had not connected the role of the bats in the ecosystem and were culturally and socially hunting down the bats, affecting the growth of the trees and the nocturnal animal. However, he says, they are disseminating information about the importance of bats too and encouraging them to protect their numbers too.Acharya says the leaves from these trees can be utilised to craft duna tapari (biodegradable baskets and plates) while the leftover parts can serve as fodder. Additionally, the wood obtained from these trees possesses strength and durability, making it a suitable material for crafting furniture, tools, and various other items.Going beyond the direct uses of these species, Dinesh Chepang explains, “It is known to give more oxygen so it is naturally beneficial and its roots and leaves have more nitrogen too, making it a great fertiliser too. And any leftovers can be fodder for the livestock.”The chiuri tree and its benefits have been deeply connected with the livelihood of the Chepang community. During the Panchayat era, the district administration had given the Chepang community responsibility to take care of the species too. But after the change in government, the change in mindset, the lack of ownership, the change in religion and the growing educational and economic opportunities shifted the priority.According to the Chepang community, there is many generation worth of knowledge linked to the species, including its uses, benefits and need for preservation. But it got lost somewhere.“Now, many individuals, as well as the local government, are making efforts to bring back that awareness and revive proactive efforts to plant and conserve the chiuri plants and forests for a better future.”Acharya sheds light on the opportunities and explains, “The priority shifted once, but now it is time to bring back the knowledge and be a part of the change. We are building awareness through school curriculum and local awareness programmes about the importance of chiuri trees and their conservation to bring back the glory.”Many from the Chepang and other local communities got attracted to other income opportunities, and to bring them back, Acharya says, they need equally viable and better opportunities.“We have been encouraging and advocating to the local and provincial government to make this a priority now. We have asked for the budget and programmes this fiscal year to bring about that very change,” says Acharya.The local government is looking at wards 6, 7, and 8 already.“But I am still pushing for the provincial government to take greater interest. And I am also working for a future where the sector gets a separate department to work on. We have estimated that if the programme gets some Rs 80 to Rs 100 million a year, with some 10 employees, in about just 10 years, we can see that,” says Acharya.But, he stresses, not just government-level interest, going back to the golden age will require conservation efforts and ownership from the locals too. “Efforts are being made to encourage the younger generation to engage in chiuri plantation and harvesting,” he says.Locals are also being explained how the plants could help generate income. This campaign, Acharya believes, will encourage the community to take responsibility.To accelerate the plantation, Acharya wants to highlight how important the species is for the ongoing global efforts against climate change. He claims that the chiuri trees would be the best option for the community to protect itself as well as contribute to the initiative given its climate adaptation prowess. “We do not have research to tell us if climate change has had an impact on the species in the area. But when we talk about climate adaptation, these trees are the best as they check all the boxes that benefit the community and the nation, in a rather shorter period. And that is what we are seeking too.”With the rapidly increasing temperature, he says that the tree’s shade coverage is also higher and gives out higher oxygen. “We can plant up to 120 chiuri saplings in 100 hectares (with a 10×10 coverage) or 600 (with a 6×6 coverage). And as it bears fruits rather fast, we can expect faster results as anticipated too.”Chiuri forests are also great to give shelter to a wide variety of wildlife and encourage biodiversity in the area, he hints.Other than that he adds, that the cascading effects can also be seen as, “In months where these trees do not give fruits, the community can engage in other fruits and vegetable farming, either in terraced/ layered form or in a cyclic nature.”The roots of the chiuri trees spread wide controlling soil erosion, and conserving groundwater levels, and they give out ample nitrogen for other plants to foster as well. And the locals can add other income opportunities as well.It can be further thought at a national level and very well be linked to ecotourism, green economy, and climate finance, he adds.This is not a solitary case as snakebites in Nepal are a medical emergency. According to a journal, an estimated 40,000 people get bitten by snakes annually and among them, little over 3,000 lose their lives. This is only in the 23 districts in the Tarai and does not include cases that are not reported. And the number is rising every year says Hemant Ojha, head of the Zoonotic Department of Epidemiology and Disease Control Division. Most of the people who get bit go to the 88 snakebite treatment centre located in 31 districts across Nepal. Apart from that, there are a few government hospitals that treat snakebites too. The Ministry of Health and Population has been purchasing about 2,000 vials of ‘Antisnake Venom’ from India annually and providing it free of cost for snakebite treatment centres and government hospitals.Despite that, there are a lot of issues as organisations involved are facing a shortage of sufficient anti-snake venom. Additionally, there exists a deficiency in both human resources and infrastructure. The cost of treatment poses a challenge too, particularly for marginalised individuals. Consequently, these individuals are left with the grim choice of either succumbing to the snakebite at home or resorting to seeking treatment from a shaman due to the lack of viable medical options.According to Krishna Acharya, a senior consultant and anesthesiologist at Bheri Hospital, the time it takes for the venom to disperse within humans varies from 30 minutes to as long as 12 hours, contingent on the specific species of the venomous snake.Noteworthy symptoms include stomach ache, vomiting, and respiratory distress. Individuals exhibiting these symptoms should be promptly transported to a medical facility or a specialised snakebite treatment centre for immediate care.Acharya says that if the patient is taken to the hospital within an hour of being bitten by a snake, there is a 90 per cent chance that the patient can be saved. But in Nepal, there is a different practice. Most people in rural Nepal go to a shaman instead of a hospital. People only visit a hospital once the situation is critical as a result snakebite deaths are on the rise.According to the snakebite expert Chhabi Lal Thapa, people are still not well aware of the treatment of snakebites. He informs that in Nawalparasi except for Kali Gandaki Hospital, no private hospital, clinic or college provides treatment for snakebites.Due to the lack of treatment facilities for snakebites in district hospitals, patients of Pyuthan, Dang, Bardiya, and Kailali have to go to Bheri Hospital, travelling for hours. As time is critical when one gets bitten by a snake, they die as they do not get adequate care on time.A similar incident occurred in Pyuthan on June 20. Abhishek Nepali was swiftly taken to Bijurwa District Hospital merely ten minutes after being bitten by a snake. The hospital had both a doctor and a supply of anti-snake venom. Regrettably, the doctor on duty lacked the expertise to administer proper treatment for a snakebite victim. Consequently, the doctor advised Nepali to seek assistance at the district hospital in Dang. But Nepali’s condition deteriorated during the journey, resulting in his death due to the rapid dissemination of the venom throughout his body. Had a proficient doctor been available at the initial hospital, Nepali’s life might have been saved.Although the government provides anti-snake venom for free, the cost of medicine, oxygen, ICU, ventilator and dialysis needs to be paid by the patient. “It cost over Rs 100,000 for the treatment of snakebite,” says Acharya. He further says that Nepal’s policymakers are unaware that snakebite is a health issue for the poor.  “The government has remained indifferent about the pain and suffering that the poor people have to go through due to the snakebite.” According to Acharya, snakebite is a huge health problem in the country but the ministry, political parties and media have not given it much attention.The statistics of the Ministry of Health and Population show that in the fiscal year 2021/22, 926 patients with snakebites reached the hospital for treatment spending around Rs 100,000 on average. This is a huge amount for a family who even struggles to fulfil their basic needs. Hemlal Acharya from Dullu, Dailekh, who travelled to Nepalgunj to seek medical care for his son following a snakebite, said, “In situations where medical resources are not readily available and individuals have to bear the expenses themselves, the treatment costs can range from Rs 500,000 to Rs 700,000.”Madhav Acharya, a resident of Dullu in Dailekh, had to spend a night at his relative’s residence during his journey to India for employment. There he was bitten by a Krait snake while sleeping there. He underwent a 17-day treatment period at both Kohalpur Medical College and Bheri Hospital. His condition was critical, leading to a seven-day stay in the intensive care unit (ICU) and another 10 days on a ventilator. Despite the fact that the expenses for the hospital bed and medications were covered by Bheri Hospital, Madhav incurred a total treatment cost of Rs 250,000.According to public health expert Jeevan Chettri, the government’s focus on the health sector is notably lacking. In such circumstances, matters concerning snakebites are unlikely to receive any form of priority or attention.Chettri says that poor people who are at risk of snakebites have to go through a lot of economic difficulties. They are unable to put forward their problems to policymakers. Due to this, policymakers are not sensitive to the financial problems caused by snakebites. But Ojha, who is also a focal person of the Ministry of Health and Population contradicts Chettri says that the government has been providing free anti-snake venom and training to health workers. Likewise, it is also conducting a public awareness programme in collaboration with the Red Cross Society and Rotary Club. “The government is doing various things to address the problem of snakebite,” says Ojha. “They might be inadequate but it is wrong to say that the  government does not care about the snakebite issue.” However, Chettri says although the government defends itself, even today, poor citizens who have been bitten by snakes are forced to go to a shaman instead of going to the hospital. This condition needs to be studied specifically. Chettri further says that if the government manages a free treatment of snakebites, the number of people losing their life by going to shamans will decrease. “In areas with a high risk of snakebites, the government can assist by offering free insurance to the residents,” says Chettri, “Individuals with health insurance should receive free treatment for snakebites. If the insurance covers all the expenses, the death due to snakebites will decrease and the financial burden of the family members will also be reduced.”Menuka Shahi, nursing officer and focal person of Bheri Hospital says that most of the expenses, including medicine, bed charge and ventilator, of snakebite patients are covered by the health insurance. But the majority of snakebite patients do not have health insurance. Due to the absence of health insurance, they go through a lot to manage fees for the treatment. Experts say that there is a dearth of awareness about snakebite in a place where there is a high risk of it. According to experts, menstruating and pregnant women are more prone to snakebites. Because of the belief that menstruating women should not sleep indoors or on a bed, they are compelled to sleep outside in places like the yard, cattle shed, and even makeshift huts. This harmful practice exposes women to an increased risk of snakebites.In the second week, 15-year-old Hemanti Joshi of Sukhad, Kailali was menstruating and sleeping on the veranda. She was taken to Seti Hospital where she breathed her last.Another pressing issue is the delayed availability of ambulances for patients. Even when ambulances are accessible, individuals often lack information about the hospitals equipped to provide snakebite treatment. This lack of awareness further complicates the situation.A study conducted in 2019 and 2020 by BP Koirala Institute of Health Sciences and experts has shown that 40 per cent of deaths due to snakebites occur in villages. The other 40 per cent die on the way and around 20 per cent die amid the treatment. In 2014, Jhalnath Khanal Institute of Health Sciences was formed to produce anti-snake venom (ASV) in Nepal. Under the initiative of former prime minister Jhalnath Khanal, the foundation also received a grant of around Rs 190 million from the federal government and the Madhesh province government.After receiving the grant money, the foundation purchased about 6.25 acres of land in Lalbandi municipality-1 by spending Rs 700 million. In 2020 the government allotted  Rs 720 million for the foundation but due to the change in the government, they did not receive the grant. The government’s decision to provide the grant for the foundation even received flak from netizens. To overcome the criticism and risk of not getting grants from international donors, the foundation was changed to the National Health Science and Research Council. “The construction of a farmhouse for snake breeding, a laboratory, a one-hundred-bed capacity hospital and an administration building has been stopped due to the suspension of grants for two years,” says Revati Pant, president of the foundation. In point number 71 of the budget statement announced by the Madhesh province government on June 16, it is mentioned that the budget will be arranged in a phased manner for the construction of necessary infrastructure after studying the feasibility of anti-snake venom production. According to Ojha of the Epidemiology and Disease Control Division, Nepal imports 20,000 vials of antisnake venom annually and is sent to snakebite treatment centres and hospitals across the country.“The anti-snake venom imported from India for treating snakebite patients is not as effective as it is in India,” says Sanjeev Kumar Shah, snakebite expert and acting vice-chancellor at BP Koirala Institute of Health Sciences. “Anti-snake venom made from raw material extracted from snakes found in India can pose a risk of reaction when given to patients bitten by snakes in Nepal.” He adds that it would be great if anti-snake venom could be produced in Nepal. Zoologist Kamal Devkota says that except for providing anti-snake venom and three-day-long training to the health workers, the government has not done anything more.  According to Devkota, alongside the government, the donor agencies have also not prioritised the problem of snakebite. He questions, “Why is this problem, not a priority for both the government and donor agencies?”This story was translated from the original Nepali version and edited for clarity and length.Simit Yaad is a multifaceted EP that artfully weaves together an array of emotions. From soulful melodies to heartwarming romantic tunes and beyond, it effortlessly encompasses a diverse range of vibes, ensuring an enchanting musical journey for every listener.Simit Yaad casts a spell with its emotive vocals and bold production. It is like each track becomes a portal to explore diverse facets of the human experience, taking listeners on a reflective journey that intimately connects them with the artist’s distinctive and thought-provoking perspective.The five-track EP kicks off with the title track Simit Yaad. It is an upbeat love song that explores the impact of finite memories of past lovers on present relationships. The poetic lyrics, haunting vocals and ghostly melody create a dreamlike atmosphere. One could say through this song, the band has tried to experiment with sonics.Najar is another love song that delves into the yearning to be with one’s lover, longing to see them, touch them, and feel their presence. The track’s reverberant beat, produced by Aman Karna, perfectly captures the singer’s emotions, enhancing the essence of the song. The lyrics, written by Abhishekh Pokhrel, resonate with the beat, making it a delightful and immersive listening experience. As a music lover, I would love to hear an acoustic version of this song as it takes me back to the old days when pop songs thrived in Nepal.From two love songs, the EP takes on a different route as Ma talks about personal feelings and the road to self-discovery, a theme rarely explored in Nepali music. Over the years, the band has consistently pushed boundaries, setting themselves apart in their pursuit of innovation by delving into topics like this.The song begins with a gentle and tender opening, featuring a simple guitar intro and transitions dynamically changing its rhythm and gradually increasing in intensity, adding a delightful variation that enhances the overall charm of the track.Phosphenes have become renowned for their experimental flair, and this EP effortlessly embodies their unique musical style. In Simit Yaad too, the band blended the elements of indie and EDM in each song, resulting in a harmonious fusion of styles.Their attention to detail shines through in their melodious guitar solos and basslines, adding depth and richness to the compositions. Yes, the EP boasts impressive composition, lyrics, and arrangements, but it is worth noting that the mixing and mastering are equally outstanding. Diwas Gurung, who co-produced the EP with the band, deserves a special mention for his exceptional work in achieving a flawless balance. Through his skillful mixing and mastering, all instruments shine clearly, harmoniously complementing each other, and enhancing the overall listening experience. It is evident that Gurung understands the band having been part of their journey from the very beginning.An example of that is the fourth track Drishya as it leaves a lasting impression on listeners with its captivating guitar and bass parts, setting it apart as a standout track. Lyrically, the song talks about breaking free but its soothing and hypnotic beats take you on a journey. It is safe to say, the music flawlessly captures the emotions of anxiety and the struggle to come to terms with reality.The final track of the album, Antya, brings a pleasant surprise as it showcases the vocal talents of bassist Nirita Yakthumba, instead of the regular vocalist Prajwal Aryal or Abhishekh Pokhrel. Her poignant vocals narrate the story of someone who remains hopeful despite feeling hopeless. The emotional impact of the song is intensified by Yakthumba’s vocal range, which seamlessly transitions from low to high, perfectly complementing the touching lyrics, which she wrote herself. It is another song that calls for self-reflection and contemplation.The song’s arrangement, featuring gentle guitar plucking, subtle synth effects, and soft drum beats in the background, creates a soothing and calming atmosphere that perfectly complements the overall tone and emotion of the track.What sets this EP apart from the band’s other projects is the inclusion of solely Nepali songs. Simit Yaad contains only Nepali songs, veering from their previous projects that also included English songs. This exclusive focus on Nepali lyrics adds a unique and authentic touch to the EP, showcasing Phosphenes’ versatility in exploring diverse musical avenues.To sum things up, Simit Yaad stands as an authentic collection of songs that brilliantly encapsulate the spirit of indie music. Each track exudes a distinct and original sound, showcasing the band’s remarkable creativity. The music that can be heard in Simit Yaad is rarely heard in the Nepali music scene.By the EP here.All photos: PhosphenesPassengers eagerly wait at designated stops, bracing themselves for the battle of finding a seat or even a comfortable standing spot. Amidst the chaotic scenes, it becomes evident that the existing public transportation system is strained beyond its capacity.If you live in Nepal, it is highly probable that you have encountered challenges while travelling in public vehicles, especially on the roads of Kathmandu.The morning and evening hours are notorious for being the busiest and most crowded for buses. The situation becomes more concerning as, despite the people’s safety and capacity limits of the vehicles, conductors often command passengers to shift and accommodate additional people inside. This practice leaves no proper space for standing, leading to overcrowding conditions within the vehicle. Consequently, conflicts and arguments frequently arise between conductors and passengers, further exacerbating the unsafe and unfriendly environment.Moreover, it poses a significant risk to the safety and well-being of passengers. The tightly packed space increases the risk of suffocation, physical harm, and even incidents of theft or robbery. Many individuals have experienced the unfortunate loss of their phones while travelling on buses. These conditions create an environment that compromises the security and comfort of passengers.Additionally, this unmanaged and overcrowded state of public transportation has been identified as one of the main contributors to the rapid spread of Covid 19 in Nepal in recent years. The close proximity among passengers, lack of ventilation, and the difficulty of maintaining physical distancing all contribute to the increased transmission of the virus within these settings. This highlights the urgent need for improved crowd management and adherence to safety protocols in public vehicles.The unmanaged and unmaintained condition of roads has created a significant safety concern for passengers. The poor state of many roads, particularly in remote areas, poses risks to travellers.Due to inadequate maintenance, many roads suffer from potholes and uneven surfaces. The improper tarmacking of roads contributes to an increase in pollution levels, causing breathing problems for the people around. These road conditions can cause discomfort to passengers, but more importantly, they increase the risk of accidents.Moreover, the number of public vehicles is insufficient compared to the demand from the population. As a result, people often have to endure long waiting times to catch a bus. The scarcity of buses not only causes delays in reaching workplaces and schools but also exacerbates the issue of overcrowding when buses finally arrive due to the high number of people waiting.Many have witnessed people not properly following the laws of public vehicle seats. The lack of adherence to proper seating laws by some citizens remains a concerning issue. Despite the clear designation of seats for women at the top of buses, it is disheartening to witness men occupying these seats, disregarding the established rules and showing a lack of respect for women’s rights in these designated spaces.It is important for individuals to show empathy and respect towards those in need and offer a seat, particularly to individuals with younger children and the elderly. By doing so, they demonstrate consideration for the well-being and dignity of fellow passengers who may require seating for reasons of safety, comfort, or mobility.Promoting awareness campaigns that emphasize the importance of following seating regulations, respecting designated spaces for women, and encouraging acts of courtesy towards those who require priority seating can contribute to a more inclusive and considerate public transportation system. Additionally, transportation policies and authorities can play an active role by inspecting regular checks and enforcing these regulations and providing training to bus conductors and staff on promoting and maintaining a safe and respectful atmosphere within public vehicles.The situation demands attention as the virus is spreading rapidly across the country. Eastern Nepal has been hit by it most as the Dharan sub-metropolis was forced to shut down schools to fight the dengue outbreak.While the post-monsoon period has historically been considered the peak season for dengue transmissions, the virus has now entrenched itself, leading to outbreaks throughout the year. This calls for collective action from all citizens to confront and cope with this menacing threat.Dengue is not a new adversary for Nepal; it has wreaked havoc in previous years. In 2022, the country witnessed 88 deaths and over 54,000 infections, with the virus spreading to all 77 districts. Hospitals in the Kathmandu valley were inundated with dengue patients, and basic medicines like paracetamol were in short supply. The alarming death rate from dengue emphasises the urgent need to address the factors that contribute to its deadly impact. Experts cite several reasons for the high death toll, including negligence in case management, delayed adoption of preventive measures, lack of public awareness, and delayed healthcare seeking after infection. The presence of multiple dengue virus serotypes further complicates the situation. To mitigate the impact of dengue outbreaks, a comprehensive strategy must be implemented, addressing these root causes head-on.The responsibility to identify and eliminate mosquito breeding sites rests with all of us. By regularly inspecting and cleaning our surroundings, we can break the transmission chain and protect our families and neighbours.Public awareness plays a pivotal role in our fight against dengue. We must educate ourselves and our communities about dengue symptoms, transmission, and preventive measures. Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus, the mosquitoes responsible for dengue transmission, breed in clean water and bite during day time. Simple measures, such as covering water tanks and properly disposing of plastic containers, can significantly reduce the risk of dengue transmission.Timely detection and access to appropriate medical care are crucial in reducing fatalities. Although there is no specific cure for dengue, early identification of the disease can make a substantial difference in patient outcomes. Healthcare facilities must be equipped to handle potential outbreaks, with a steady supply of essential medications and trained medical professionals to identify and treat dengue promptly. Beyond dengue, our efforts must encompass a holistic approach to address the broader challenge of vector-borne diseases. The same mosquitoes responsible for dengue transmission also carry other life-threatening diseases such as chikungunya, yellow fever, and Zika. Integrated vector management strategies must be adopted to tackle these health threats simultaneously.To combat dengue outbreaks effectively, entomologists stress the importance of sustainable solutions for mosquito control. Proper waste management and regular mosquito breeding site inspections are essential components of these solutions.Embracing sustainable practices will not only combat dengue but also contribute to overall public health and environmental well-being. This battle against dengue requires a united front, with the government and citizens working together. While the government must take the lead in implementing preventive measures and providing healthcare support, citizens must actively participate and support these initiatives. Collaboration, backed by financial and logistical support, is the key to success in combatting this deadly disease.In the face of the looming dengue outbreak and the monsoon’s unpredictable nature, we stand at a crossroads – a choice between complacency and collective action. Let us not wait for tragedy to strike our doorsteps before we act. The time to unite is now, to forge an unbreakable shield against dengue’s deadly advance. Together, we possess the strength to defy this annual scourge, protect our loved ones, and ensure that no life is lost in vain.On this International Youth Day, as we focus on the theme of — Green Skills for Youth: Towards a Sustainable World — it becomes crucial to closely examine the true inclusivity of this movement, particularly from the perspective of youth with disabilities.Do these noble ideals of inclusivity and transformation translate into concrete actions? Are youth movements wholeheartedly embracing the participation of individuals with disabilities, or is their inclusion merely symbolic? These are the pressing questions demanding answers to authentically uncover the vast potential of the progressive youth movement.Amidst the progressive youth movement lies a disheartening truth – individuals with disabilities often find themselves marginalised even within this very movement. It is a perplexing paradox that while youth organisations strive for a more equitable world, they inadvertently cast persons with disabilities as mere symbols of inclusivity, neglecting to acknowledge their profound and meaningful contributions. This unfortunate tendency further ingrains the misconception that disabilities should be put on display, rather than being valued for the unparalleled viewpoints and skills they bring to the table. This leads us to a pivotal question that demands contemplation: are these organisations sincerely contemplating individuals with disabilities for roles of leadership, or are they simply plugging gaps to create a façade of inclusiveness? As we ardently pursue the ideals of an inclusive youth movement, it becomes imperative to meticulously evaluate whether persons with disabilities are being entrusted with substantive leadership responsibilities, transcending the boundaries of mere membership.Can we witness them taking charge in the leadership position of youth councils, actively and influentially engaging in the intricate realms of advocacy and decision-making?In the name of fostering true inclusion, the persistent issue of tokenism looms large, casting a shadow over well-intentioned efforts. While individuals with disabilities are occasionally granted visibility and invited to participate in rallies and public gatherings orchestrated by various organisations, the stark reality often remains obscured: their involvement in shaping policies and strategies remains limited. To embody the essence of inclusion, a mere presence is insufficient; it must penetrate the very core of decision-making processes.Delving deeper into the organisational landscape, it is crucial to scrutinise whether critical discussions on human resources, gender equality, disability, and social inclusion have not only found a place in youth organisations’ policies but have become integral to their ethos. The urgency of this inquiry cannot be overstated. Do these discussions transcend mere lip service, becoming proactive considerations deeply ingrained in the organisational fabric?The present state of affairs underscores a striking contrast between the surface-level token representation and the authentic realisation of inclusivity. Symbolic gestures, while visually impactful, fail to replace the profound influence of genuine involvement. The call for transformation resounds loudly – a transformation that goes beyond the superficial and orchestrates a comprehensive shift. It is our responsibility to cultivate an environment where the voices of individuals with disabilities resonate powerfully and substantively.Amidst the grand proclamations and global declarations made by esteemed international bodies and youth councils, such as the United Nations Youth Council and Youth Committee, a pivotal question emerges: how effectively have we, as youth organisations and movements, translated these commitments into actions that hold significance at the grassroots level? While we proudly espouse the narrative of inclusivity, introspection becomes imperative – we must assess the concrete impact we wield in creating leadership opportunities for individuals with disabilities within our local spheres.Are these commitments fleeting expressions, or do they resonate genuinely through the actions we undertake? The authenticity of our dedication to inclusivity finds its litmus test in the tangible representation of persons with disabilities in positions of influence. Do our actions align with our rhetoric? Are we providing equal avenues for these individuals not only to participate but also to spearhead initiatives that shape inclusive and transformative platforms on a global scale? This introspection prompts us to evaluate the true depth of representation and involvement within our organisations.Progress, undeniably, has left its mark on the canvas of inclusivity. Yet, progress alone falls short of our aspirations. It beckons us to venture further, traversing a landscape where inclusivity transcends mere rhetoric and becomes an intrinsic facet of the youth movement’s identity. The allocation of resources by numerous national and international agencies, earmarked for marginalised segments including those with disabilities, represents a commendable stride toward equity. However, we must delve deeper, questioning whether these gestures truly align with the nuanced needs and multifaceted challenges that define the experiences of this community.Amid pressing concerns related to exclusion, it becomes imperative for us to not only acknowledge but also actively champion instances of authentic inclusivity. A vivid embodiment of this ideal can be witnessed in the remarkable journey of individuals like Kaladhar Bhandari. His exceptional leadership as the Chairperson of the Blind Youth Association Nepal seamlessly intertwines with his role as an executive member of the National Youth Council. However, this narrative extends beyond the individual level. Anita Dhungana, a former executive member of the National Youth Council, and Sarita Lamichhane, renowned for founding Prayatna Nepal, have also left indelible marks while occupying esteemed positions. Notably, Sarita Lamichhane served as a former executive member of the Association of Youth Organizations Nepal (AYON). These exceptional exemplars serve as beacons of hope, underscoring the tangible potential of cultivating inclusive leadership.Nevertheless, the enduring impact and significance of such practices necessitate thoughtful contemplation. We must critically assess whether these appointments of individuals with disabilities are mere superficial gestures or truly integral components of a broader, genuine endeavour aimed at nurturing inclusivity at all levels. Genuine transformation demands an unwavering commitment to consistently and enduringly integrate individuals with disabilities into decision-making and authoritative roles. Superficial gestures of inclusiveness fall short; it is the sustained and authentic representation of persons with disabilities that infuses vitality into a truly comprehensive youth movement. The authenticity of intent should be reflected through actions that go beyond symbolism, thereby fortifying the foundation of an inclusive society. By doing so, we reaffirm our dedication to dismantling barriers, challenging stereotypes, and shaping a world where diversity is not merely acknowledged but fervently embraced.In conclusion, as we celebrate International Youth Day, it is crucial to acknowledge the significant yet often overlooked role of youth with disabilities in shaping our future. Despite the noble ideals of inclusivity and transformation within the youth movement, we must confront the disheartening truth of marginalisation and tokenism faced by individuals with disabilities. True inclusivity demands more than symbolic gestures; it necessitates substantive participation and genuine representation at all levels of decision-making and leadership. The transformative potential of the youth movement lies in the strong commitment to dismantle barriers and embrace diversity wholeheartedly. Let us fortify the foundation of an inclusive society, one where the voices and talents of individuals with disabilities resonate powerfully and where actions reflect the authenticity of our intent. Only then can we earnestly pave the way towards a sustainable world, harnessed by the collective strength of all youth, regardless of ability?However, there have been a fair few Nepali books that have been translated into English as well. These books have helped international readers to know about Nepal, its culture, tradition, politics and others.  If you are someone who wants to read about Nepal but do not have a good grasp of the English language, these 10 books are perfect for you.Authored by Narayan Wagle, Palpasa Café revolves around the story of an artist, Drishya, amidst the Nepali Civil War. This Nepali novel is partly a love story of Drishya and Palpasa, who has returned to the land of her parents after the terrorist attack in the USA on September 11, 2001. The novel is often known as an anti-war novel and exhibits the effects of the civil war on the Nepali countryside that Drishya travels to. Palpasa Cafe is translated into English by Bikash Sangraula. Karnali Blues, written by Buddhi Sagar expresses the struggle of a lower middle-class father in the Far Western Region of Nepal from his son’s lenses. This Nepali novel has a  great presentation as it can move the readers along with the characters in the story.The novel predominantly unfolds through flashbacks, beautifully portraying the evolving perception of the son towards his father. The English translation of the book by Michael Hutt was launched in 2021.   Blue Mimosa is a Nepali book translated from Parijat’s magnum opus Shirish Ko Phool. Shirish Ko Phool depicts the story of a middle-aged man, Suyog Bir Singh who is going through a midlife crisis, also a former World War soldier. He is captivated by Sakambari, a rebellious personality who does not adhere to the conventional norms of how a woman should act or dress.     The book delves into the theme of an empty and meaningless life and an unhealthy obsession with a woman. The Prison is translated by Ann Hunkins from the book Karagar, authored by Banika Giri. The book portrays the story of a female protagonist who is at marriageable age, but due to her brother’s greed for property, her marriage gets delayed, which she discovers later.  Afterwards, she starts feeling lonely and isolated and poses a desire to break the lonely prison of isolation.Shramatan: A Nepalese Migrant Worker’s Memoir by Nepali author BN Joshi is translated into English by Arun Budhathoki. Shramatan is a harrowing ride that millions of Nepalis take every day, a tale of ‘coffin ships’ that take them away from their humble hillside homes to a hostile world of uncertainty and misery.This book is a flashback of the author’s life. The author, BN Joshi, says that he was inspired to write the book after experiencing the harsh realities of foreign jobs in various countries.Song of the Soil is a translated version of Fatsung, written by Chuden Kabimo. This Nepali book was translated by Ajit Baral.  Song of the Soil takes readers to the foothill town of Kalimpong in the Himalayas. The book tells the story of the revolution for a separate state of Gorkhaland in the late 1980s, exposing the faces of violence that occurred during the politically charged Gorkha movement. There’s a Carnival Today is another must-read Nepali book which has been translated by Manjushree Thapa. The Nepali version of the book is written by Indra Bahadur Rai and is called Aja Ramita Cha.The novel is set in the socio-cultural milieu of Darjeeling around the characters Janak Man Yonzan and Sita Shrestha. In the story, Shrestha hails from Dhankuta and is studying in Darjeeling. Janak Man Yonzan returns to Darjeeling from his study in Calcutta. They marry and settle down in Darjeeling. Most of the characters featured in the novel are Nepali-speaking individuals. They follow the culture and religion close to those of some hilly parts of Nepal. The novel explores changing political dynamics of Darjeeling within the context of pre- and post-independence India.The Wake of the White Tiger is translated from Seto Bagh, written by Diamond Shumsher Rana. Greta Rana has translated the book into English.The book portrays the life of Jagat Jung Rana, the eldest son of Jung Bahadur Rana. The book takes the readers to the time when Jung Bahadur Rana was in power and after his demise.Radha was originally written by Krishna Dharabasi and later was translated into English by Mahesh Paudyal. Radha is a winner of a Madan Puraskar, one of the biggest literary awards in Nepal. The novel is an adaptation of the ancient Sanskrit epic Mahabharat, with a heightened focus on the character of Radha.The Nepal Nexus is a translation of  Prayogshala, authored by Sudheer Sharma. The book is translated by Sanjaya Dhakal for Penguin India. The book is a vivid account of Nepal’s political insights related to Nepal’s 10-year conflict, the 2006 people’s movement, the fragile transition that followed, to the Maoists’ subsequent rise to power. The Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal has grounded all Simrik Air helicopters.Gyanendra Bhul, the information officer of the authority, stated that a financial audit carried out by CAAN’s team revealed an unsteady financial situation at Simrik Air. He said their service was also suspended due to a failure to pay the owed amount of Rs 4.6 million to the authority, despite multiple reminders.“We do not think it is safe to allow them to operate when it is uncertain if the airline can pay its staff. We have barred all four helicopters from flying,” said Bhul.CAAN said it will only allow the airlines to operate after it provides assurance it can pay its staff and operate sustainably along with paying what it owes CAAN.According to the Bhul, Simrik Air owes Tribhuvan International Airport Rs Rs 2.79 million, Lukla Airport Rs 1.57 million, Tapejung Airport Rs 437,000 and Simikot Airport Rs 158,000.Birendra Mahato raised the issue in a recent podcast interview, where he said he’d received offers from U.S. and Japanese hunters who wanted to pay millions of dollars to kill a tiger in Nepal. The country represents a rare conservation success story for the big cat, Panthera tigris, whose population here has tripled over the past 12 years.“They told me that we could go into global bidding, and allow the highest bidder to hunt tigers for a month every four to five years,” Mahato said.He pointed out that Nepal would soon face the problem of having too many tigers for its limited space and resources, which could lead to increased conflicts with humans and lack of food for the animals. The money raised from selling hunting could be used for conservation work, he added.“We could charge USD 25 million for every tiger killed,” he said. At that price, the cost of killing five tigers would easily cover the environment ministry’s total budget for the 2023/24 fiscal year.But Mahato’s suggestion and justifications have come under scathing criticism from conservationists, experts and local communities. They say “sport hunting” would be a disastrous move that would jeopardise Nepal’s remarkable achievement in tiger conservation and pose serious ecological and cultural risks.“Hunting just doesn’t work to reduce conflict,” says Mark Elbroch, director of the puma program at global wildcat conservation NGO Panthera.Elbroch led a recently published study proposing five hypotheses for why killing carnivores such as tigers might not just fail to stop their predation of livestock, but could even exacerbate the problem.The study suggests that killing tigers may have unintended consequences such as increasing local tiger density, attracting new or neighbouring tigers who may be less wary about preying on livestock, disrupting the predator-prey balance, causing prey species to change their behaviour and distribution, and creating a false sense of security among people.“When hunters are given guns, and allowed to kill, they can kill any tiger in the habitat,” Elbroch said. “That tiger could have a specific role in the population and its death could have negative impacts on the entire population.”There may be certain traits, such as skin colour, size or even shape that the hunters might prefer, and it’s possible that if they only target such tigers, it could lead to a loss in these traits in the population, conservationists say.Neil Carter, an associate professor of environment at the University of Michigan, who recently studied social networks among tigers in Nepal’s Chitwan National Park using long-term camera trap data, said tigers of different sexes and ages have important roles to play in the social network. That means the loss of individuals central to the network could create disproportionate disruptions to the population.For example, resident adult male tigers play an important role in maintaining the network. They connect different clusters of tigers together as they travel long distances to mate with multiple females. They also protect their territory from other males who might try to mate with their females or kill their cubs. Adult female tigers also have an important role in the network. If they live in a certain area for a long time, they’re more likely to connect to the wider network. They can also pass on their territory to their offspring, which is an advantage for their survival.Another study shows that even the death of one or two tigers, especially females, could trigger a massive decline in the overall population. Female tigers not only give birth to young ones, but also nurture and protect them until they’re capable of living on their own.In the case of cubs, only around 50 per cent survive to the age of dispersal, said Bhim Gurung, a co-author of the study on social networks among tigers.“If the main male tiger dies, the survival rate goes down further as the new male tries to kill all cubs born from the previous male,” says Gurung, from the Nepal Tiger Trust. The survivability of the cubs has important, long-term implications for the viability of the tiger population, Gurung added.In addition to these potential ecological repercussions, hunting of tigers raises important cultural issues for members of local Indigenous communities, especially the Tharu people living around Chitwan.“The indigenous communities living in areas that now fall under the national park were displaced so that the tigers could be saved,” said Birendra Mahato (not related to the environment minister), president of the Tharu Cultural Museum in Chitwan. “The communities have made a lot of sacrifices for Nepal to achieve the goal of doubling its tiger population.”He added that tigers are part of their religious lives and they worship them: “It’s beyond imagination that they would allow anyone to come in with a gun and kill them regardless of the money they offer.”Nepal faces a dilemma of coexisting with tigers, as the big cats’ population has grown from 121 in 2010 to 355 in 2023, thanks to intensive conservation efforts. At the same time, the country’s human population has also expanded in the southern plains, where most tigers live, thanks to a successful malaria eradication program in the 20th century. This has led to more cases of human-tiger conflict, as tigers and humans compete for the same space and resources.Elbroch said he believes that “problem” tigers that attack and kill people should be removed, but only after confirming their identity through genetic tests.Short of such definitive tests, “we need to rely on visible traits, and sometimes we even catch the wrong tiger,” says a former veterinary technician, who asked to remain anonymous. “If we allow hunters to kill the problem tigers, they would be the last people to be able to identify them.”Carter said “problem” tigers are unlikely to be part of the social network, and may have come into conflict with humans because of this. But he also said some of these tigers may play central roles in the network and their removal could have disproportionate impacts on the population structure.Then there’s a question of securing enough food and habitat for the growing population of tigers. However, researchers say there’s a limit to the population growth, and it may have already been reached in Chitwan. A recent study suggests that the ecological carrying capacity for tigers may have essentially been reached in Chitwan due to the limited availability of prey populations in the area.The authors note that prey densities estimated across the plains and hills of the Chitwan-Parsa site can support 177 adult tigers. The 2022 census indicates that the population there has already reached 155. The authors note that given the numbers, only small gains in population may be achieved in the future.“The population will not continue increasing forever,” Elbroch said. “Limiting factors such as availability of prey and various climatic factors will come into play.“But hunting is a terrible idea,” he added. “It’s a fly in the face of the collaborative efforts to save these wonderful animals.”This story first appeared on Mongabay and Onlinekhabar is republishing it under a Creative Commons licence.