However, there have been a fair few Nepali books that have been translated into English as well. These books have helped international readers to know about Nepal, its culture, tradition, politics and others.  If you are someone who wants to read about Nepal but do not have a good grasp of the English language, these 10 books are perfect for you.Authored by Narayan Wagle, Palpasa Café revolves around the story of an artist, Drishya, amidst the Nepali Civil War. This Nepali novel is partly a love story of Drishya and Palpasa, who has returned to the land of her parents after the terrorist attack in the USA on September 11, 2001. The novel is often known as an anti-war novel and exhibits the effects of the civil war on the Nepali countryside that Drishya travels to. Palpasa Cafe is translated into English by Bikash Sangraula. Karnali Blues, written by Buddhi Sagar expresses the struggle of a lower middle-class father in the Far Western Region of Nepal from his son’s lenses. This Nepali novel has a  great presentation as it can move the readers along with the characters in the story.The novel predominantly unfolds through flashbacks, beautifully portraying the evolving perception of the son towards his father. The English translation of the book by Michael Hutt was launched in 2021.   Blue Mimosa is a Nepali book translated from Parijat’s magnum opus Shirish Ko Phool. Shirish Ko Phool depicts the story of a middle-aged man, Suyog Bir Singh who is going through a midlife crisis, also a former World War soldier. He is captivated by Sakambari, a rebellious personality who does not adhere to the conventional norms of how a woman should act or dress.     The book delves into the theme of an empty and meaningless life and an unhealthy obsession with a woman. The Prison is translated by Ann Hunkins from the book Karagar, authored by Banika Giri. The book portrays the story of a female protagonist who is at marriageable age, but due to her brother’s greed for property, her marriage gets delayed, which she discovers later.  Afterwards, she starts feeling lonely and isolated and poses a desire to break the lonely prison of isolation.Shramatan: A Nepalese Migrant Worker’s Memoir by Nepali author BN Joshi is translated into English by Arun Budhathoki. Shramatan is a harrowing ride that millions of Nepalis take every day, a tale of ‘coffin ships’ that take them away from their humble hillside homes to a hostile world of uncertainty and misery.This book is a flashback of the author’s life. The author, BN Joshi, says that he was inspired to write the book after experiencing the harsh realities of foreign jobs in various countries.Song of the Soil is a translated version of Fatsung, written by Chuden Kabimo. This Nepali book was translated by Ajit Baral.  Song of the Soil takes readers to the foothill town of Kalimpong in the Himalayas. The book tells the story of the revolution for a separate state of Gorkhaland in the late 1980s, exposing the faces of violence that occurred during the politically charged Gorkha movement. There’s a Carnival Today is another must-read Nepali book which has been translated by Manjushree Thapa. The Nepali version of the book is written by Indra Bahadur Rai and is called Aja Ramita Cha.The novel is set in the socio-cultural milieu of Darjeeling around the characters Janak Man Yonzan and Sita Shrestha. In the story, Shrestha hails from Dhankuta and is studying in Darjeeling. Janak Man Yonzan returns to Darjeeling from his study in Calcutta. They marry and settle down in Darjeeling. Most of the characters featured in the novel are Nepali-speaking individuals. They follow the culture and religion close to those of some hilly parts of Nepal. The novel explores changing political dynamics of Darjeeling within the context of pre- and post-independence India.The Wake of the White Tiger is translated from Seto Bagh, written by Diamond Shumsher Rana. Greta Rana has translated the book into English.The book portrays the life of Jagat Jung Rana, the eldest son of Jung Bahadur Rana. The book takes the readers to the time when Jung Bahadur Rana was in power and after his demise.Radha was originally written by Krishna Dharabasi and later was translated into English by Mahesh Paudyal. Radha is a winner of a Madan Puraskar, one of the biggest literary awards in Nepal. The novel is an adaptation of the ancient Sanskrit epic Mahabharat, with a heightened focus on the character of Radha.The Nepal Nexus is a translation of  Prayogshala, authored by Sudheer Sharma. The book is translated by Sanjaya Dhakal for Penguin India. The book is a vivid account of Nepal’s political insights related to Nepal’s 10-year conflict, the 2006 people’s movement, the fragile transition that followed, to the Maoists’ subsequent rise to power. It is all about learning a new thing, finding the resources and then putting your time and effort into learning it, and then practising it. So here are some skills to learn that you can start today.Coding is among those vital skills to learn in this digital era. Coding enhances problem-solving and logical thinking, breaking complex issues into manageable parts. Additionally, coding nurtures creativity and innovation, enabling unique projects to solve real-world issues or entertain others. Embrace coding’s potential today and witness your skills and opportunities flourish.Countless career opportunities arise as companies seek skilled developers, providing a competitive edge in the job market. It enables diverse applications in web development, data analysis, AI, and cybersecurity, empowering you to create websites, automate tasks, and analyse data. You can learn Python or Java to start with, which you can do with online courses or take offline classes. Digital marketing is crucial for promoting products and services online, given the growing internet-based consumer base. Mastering digital marketing drives business growth, improves customer experiences, and opens exciting opportunities in the ever-changing digital landscape. Whether you’re a business owner, marketer, or digital enthusiast, this becomes one of those essential skills to learn in order to stay ahead.It is integral to create digital campaigns, measure their success and impact as well as make informed decisions in one’s business. Analysing data from various channels additionally helps marketers understand customer behaviour, optimise strategies, and enhance campaigns. It can also be among those easy skills to learn online with dedicated blog sites, or other online courses including topics like digital marketing, SEO, social media marketing, email marketing, and content creation. Offline courses are also easily available.Graphic design includes the art of visual content creation, covers, logos, websites, and marketing materials. It allows one to blend artistic skills with problem-solving, offering versatility and excitement. Whether freelancing or in a design agency, graphic design’s potential is boundless. Like digital marketing, it also requires understanding the target audience and the message to convey ensuring effective communication through design, colour theory and the use of shapes.Adapting to evolving technology and design trends keeps designers competitive, hence this becomes one of those important skills to learn. Experimenting with new tools fuels creativity, offering fresh solutions to design challenges. To learn and be updated, there are online courses to sign up for and free platforms to learn and experiment with different designs and ideas.Photography is the art of capturing images and it is a valuable skill for photography enthusiasts or aspiring photographers. Whereas videography deals with the knowledge of how to capture moving images and integrate storytelling. Both will require attention to detail, patience, and capturing the subjects’ essence. Developing a unique artistic style sets you apart.These visual arts offer platforms for creativity, self-expression, and evoking emotions through imagery. You can embark on this visual storytelling journey and let your creativity soar. For these some skills to learn can be tips and tricks as well as courses on photography, including camera types, understanding of composition, lighting, and post-processing as well as cinematography basics like camera angles, framing, and video editing can be important skills to learn.Having photo and video editing skills is essential for personal projects and more so if you want to do professional content creation. Visual editing demands creativity and storytelling abilities, empowering you to capture subjects, angle frames, shape mood, pace, and overall impact. With thoughtful shot selection, you can evoke emotions, build suspense, and deliver powerful messages either in photo or video format.Photo and video editing enhances visual quality, adds effects, and creates or highlights cohesive narratives, perfect to use in blogs, YouTube channels, or social media. And to get proficiency in video editing opens opportunities in diverse industries including marketing, business, and communication. You can use your skills to learn how to create promotional content, educational materials, or engaging social media videos for the right audience. To learn the tools and techniques you will get an ample amount of resources online, but it will be about practising and getting that finesse in your work.Public speaking is a life skill that everybody should have. It is a skill one needs to have clear and confident communication with groups, and this even benefits presentations as well as aids career advancement. Books, podcasts, and local clubs offer additional resources for enhancing public speaking and enabling you to embrace speaking competitions for valuable practice and peer feedback.But with consistent practice and dedication, one can gain confidence in effective public speaking, unlocking personal and professional opportunities. Invest in this worthwhile pursuit for career growth, personal development, and impactful communication. This can even help you be social and help you with other skills to learn.Learning a new language enhances cognitive abilities, and communication skills, and opens doors to new cultures. To begin you can use language learning apps, online courses, or language exchange platforms. Interactive apps are also there nowadays that can cover vocabulary, grammar, and pronunciation in a fun way, in the form of games making this one of those easy skills to learn. You can still take online or offline courses to learn a foreign language.Connect with native speakers and practice speaking and listening. Or immerse yourself in the language through movies, TV shows, podcasts, music, books, and articles if you feel more comfortable that way. They can help to familiarise with sounds and cultural context. If you are serious about learning consider advanced courses, immersion programs, or travelling to the country to deepen your understanding and gain cultural insights.Whether a novice or experienced cook, cooking or having culinary skills is very important, one of those skills to learn that is connected to basic needs. So, enhance your culinary skills by exploring cooking tutorials or enrolling in virtual cooking classes. Online resources, like YouTube and food blogs, offer video tutorials from talented chefs and home cooks, guiding you in baking, grilling, and mastering diverse cuisines.Structured virtual cooking classes on TV shows, blogs and recipe guides with provide step-by-step demonstrations. Practice regularly to gain confidence and proficiency in cooking, and do not forget to experiment as well to broaden your palate and understanding of culinary traditions.If you are more artistic in nature, then among the skills to learn you can also consider this. Start your musical journey by choosing an instrument that captivates you. Once you have chosen your instrument, delve into online tutorials and video lessons on platforms like YouTube. Explore online tutorials, videos, and practices or take virtual or even offline lessons from a music teacher. There are many options to start with.You can also explore interactive apps and websites to enhance learning with sheet music, exercises, and virtual ensembles. Follow along at your pace, mastering beginner to advanced techniques. But consistent practice and exploration of genres and virtual jam sessions lead to steady improvement and musical fulfilment.Kathmandu, August 9The Madan Puraskar Guthi has selected five books for Madan Puraskar 2079.The Madan Puraskar Guthi received 313 books after which a committee formed to review them selected five of the year’s best books.The books selected are Subin Bhattarai’s Ijoriya, Bibek Okha’s Aainthan, Dwarikanath Dhungel’s Chakravyuh Ma Nepalko Jalsrot, Pragati Rai’s Thangra and Sanjya Bista’s Matako Ghar.One out of the five books will be awarded the Madan Puraskar 2079.The Madan Puraskar, presented annually in Nepal by the Madan Puraskar Guthi, is Nepal’s most distinguished literary prize. It recognises an exceptional book published in the Nepali language within the given calendar year.Serums are typically applied to the skin after cleansing but before moisturising. Face serums often contain active ingredients like hyaluronic or glycolic acid and they are very useful for targeting specific skin concerns, such as acne, dryness, clogged pores, dullness, dark spots and more.As you begin to explore the vast world of serums, it’s important to choose a formula that appeals to your specific needs. Maybe you would like a more radiant complexion. Perhaps you want to decrease visible signs of ageing, or we’re after a smoother texture following years of acne trouble. Whatever our issue, here are the most common serums recommended to use accordingly.Vitamin C serum is also known as ascorbic acid, vitamin C serum serves as an antioxidant helping to protect against free radical damage, according to dermatologists. A vitamin C serum features a highly natural formulation of active ingredients that can easily penetrate the skin and treat specific skin concerns. It consists of smaller molecules, making it easy to work through the seven layers of the skin. Vitamin C serums are best applied in the morning. They provide antioxidant protection, so applying them before sunscreen helps defend your skin from environmental damage and brightens your complexion.Vitamin C is a morning serum, so it can work to protect our pores during the day from UV, free radicals, and other environmental exposures.  According to Dr Garshick, a dermatologist, it can be useful for people who want to brighten their skin especially, and it can also assist to balance out skin tone, making dark patches look less noticeable.Hyaluronic acid (HA) is a naturally occurring glycosaminoglycan found throughout the body’s connective tissue. Glycosaminoglycans are simply long unbranched carbohydrates, or sugars, called polysaccharides. HA is the main component of what gives your skin structure and is responsible for that plump and hydrated look.As you age, your skin’s natural hyaluronic acid levels decrease, leading to dryness and wrinkles. Using hyaluronic acid or serums with HA can help counteract this process by replenishing moisture and promoting a smoother, more youthful appearance. It can improve skin elasticity and firmness, reducing the appearance of fine lines and making the skin look more supple.You can start using hyaluronic acid in your 20s or 30s to maintain skin hydration and delay the signs of ageing. It can be incorporated into your daily skincare routine through serums, creams, or moisturisers. Apply it to clean, damp skin to maximise its hydrating effects.Niacinamide, also known as vitamin B3, is a water-soluble vitamin that has various uses and benefits for the body. It helps build keratin, a protein that maintains skin health. It’s also been shown to make your skin stronger, smoother and brighter.It is commonly used in skincare products due to its positive effects on the skin. Some of its benefits include regulating oil production, improving the skin’s barrier function, reducing the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles, and helping to fade dark spots and hyperpigmentation. The best time to use niacinamide serums is during your morning and evening skincare routines. Niacinamide serum can be applied directly after cleansing and gently patting the face dry. If you want, you can apply toner first. The key is to apply it to damp skin so that it can be easily and quickly absorbed. After applying your serum, make sure you lock it in with a moisturiser. Retinol is a form of vitamin A with many uses in skin care. It’s used to treat acne and has anti-ageing effects. Retinol increases skin cell production (proliferation). Retinol or serums with retinol help unclog pores. Retinol also exfoliates your skin and increases collagen production, which can reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles, giving your skin a fresher, plump appearance.Retinol is a powerful tool against ageing skin and acne, but it’s not for everyone. If you are prone to allergies or have sensitive skin, you might want to try skincare products with alternative anti-ageing or skin-clearing ingredients. Importantly, retinol makes our skin more sensitive to sunlight so be sure to use sunscreen and avoid the sun as much as you can while you use retinol products.If you are trying a retinol product or serums with retinol for the first time, try a little bit on a small area of the skin (a patch test) to see if you have any negative reactions. If, after a couple of days, your skin patch isn’t very red or itchy it will work for you. while using retinol make sure you do not scrub your face just a gentle cleanser then apply retinol in a thin layer to your entire face (be careful not to get it in your mouth, nose and eyes). You should only use a dose that’s about the size of a pea. For the first couple weeks of treatment, apply retinol only every other day. Finish with a facial moisturiser that won’t clog your pores.He says, “A man asked me what was in the boxes, and I replied socks. Amazed, he asked me what I would do with them, so I said I will sell them in Nepal.” While Adhikari could sense some doubts from people, his excitement about seeing his idea come to life outweighed the scepticism. He did not care what people think. All that he cared about was selling the 400 pair of socks he had in the two boxes.“I wanted to sell 200 pairs in a month before I set up Dynamocks Nepal. But I sold all 400 in two weeks,” says Adhikari. “I had told the manufacturers in India I would be back for more but little did I know it would be that quick.” Today, Dynamocks Nepal sells around 700 socks a month. Naturally, Adhikari is thrilled to witness the extent to which his dreams have been realised. With its free-sized socks, Dynamocks Nepal has made it easier to appeal to a wider audience. Additionally, it has introduced loafers to further expand its user group. Adhikari’s journey in business started in 2015 when he went to Dubai to pursue a degree in fashion design. The networks he built there shaped him into who he is now.“There was a senior and I saw him talk about his business. The passion he showed for his idea inspired me too. And I wanted to bring them to Nepal as well.”A year later Adhikari was back in Nepal. When he returned, he learnt his senior had founded Dynamocks in India. The brand resonated with him and he wanted to bring it to Nepal but had a hard time convincing his senior. But in 2020, things moved forward after his senior gave him the green light.“The socks he was selling were so artistic and fashionable. I desperately wanted to introduce them to Nepal which I felt Nepal was ready for them,” says Adhikari.When he finally brought them to Nepal and sold 400 pairs in a fortnight, his hunch was validated. His senior in college was impressed at how quickly Adhikari managed to sell them. Since then he has not looked back.Socks are arguably one of the neglected areas in fashion. There are not many people who think they will make good money selling them. So, naturally, Adhikari also saw some resistance from the family when he told them that is what he wanted to do.The customs officer not allowing him to come to Nepal with two boxes of brand-new socks was also an issue but he did not let these obstacles hinder him.“I was adamant. I wanted to sell socks,” he says.He had the socks but he now needed a platform to sell them on. For that, he took to social media and with his first sponsored post, he received overwhelming responses.“We received so many queries and orders from the first week itself. People were very intrigued by the designs and it was all very encouraging,” he says. Dynamocks Nepal now has over 50 verified customers who have ordered from them more than five times. One of its loyal customers is Vivek Lekhak who was pulled by the company’s vibrant and catchy designs.“From the very first time I ordered the socks, I have been intrigued by it. I love the designs and the socks are comfortable too. I’ve recommended them to fellow adventure lovers and mountain bikers,” says Lekhak.Under the guidance of family members and advisors, like Rishab Chudal and Dharma Raj Paneru, Dynamocks Nepal has navigated through challenges and expanded its offerings. They have nurtured a loyal customer base by ensuring quality and providing incentives for repeat purchases.Design, of course, has been the strongest suit, but the sock’s durability and comfort has been the major reason why so many people buy them. In the recently held Kathmandu Kora, Dynamocks Nepal collaborated and custom-designed socks for the 150 cyclists in the event. Happy with the prompt response and the custom designs, founder of social tours and organiser of the Kora Cycling Challenge Raj Gyawali says that he is looking forward to more collaborations.There are times Adhikari gets offers to sell them in bulk. But he does not want to do that as he believes it will diminish the socks’ value both monetarily and artistically.“The manufacturer in India is very happy with the way business is growing in Nepal,” he says adding they have done all this through the help of social media.They understand there is competition in the market, but for now, Adhikari is not worried about it. For now, he is enjoying doing business in Nepal and is elated with the response from the customers so far.“It is all about fun for me. There are, of course, other sock companies or traders in Kathmandu itself. But I believe in my products and I have the support of my senior in this venture, so I feel secure that there will not be someone that will replace my product with the designs or the quality.”Adhikari says the plan is now to manufacture the socks in Nepal. Importing fabrics from India, Dynamocks Nepal has been experimenting with new designs solely for the Nepali customer base.“We are experimenting with designs for example magic mushrooms, that are more relatable to the young Nepali crowd,” he says. “I want to make designs that will resonate with bankers and businesspeople who are my major customer base.”What he does not want to do is to start making nationalistic designs. He understands these designs will sell a lot but for now, he wants to stay clear of that.Adhikari adds Dynamocks Nepal wants to work with the mountain biking and tourism industry and in the long run go global.The plan is already in play. After branching out to Pokhara and Baglung, Dynamocks Nepal aims to sell socks in the United Kingdom and Belgium.Despite the business’s growth, Adhikari has not been overly focused on expanding the number of outlets or team members. Throughout this journey, both Adhikari and his wife Ekta have been fully committed to the venture, dedicating all their time to it, even personally delivering the packages themselves.“People are shocked when they see a business owner deliver products. But I want to continue doing that so that I can see the smile, the happiness when they receive the packages,” he says.It is essential for everyone to comprehend this seasonal eye condition and take appropriate preventive measures to safeguard our eye health during the warmer months.As the summer season arrives, Nepal faces a recurring challenge with numerous cases of conjunctivitis, commonly known as pink eye, surfacing in different regions. The incessant rainfall over recent weeks has contributed to the spread of this eye infection in the Tarai region, Kathmandu Valley, and other provinces. The situation is worsened by waterlogging in several regions, and with the monsoon season underway, there has been a significant surge in conjunctivitis and eye flu cases.The unusual showers, flooding, and higher atmospheric moisture levels have created an ideal environment for the proliferation of bacteria and viruses, resulting in a drastic increase in infections. The rise in humidity and water contamination further exacerbates the nationwide spike in conjunctivitis cases.Summer conjunctivitis can stem from various sources, making us all susceptible to exposure. The main causes and modes of transmission include:Awareness is the first step towards overcoming any challenge. Recognising the symptoms of summer conjunctivitis is vital for early detection and prompt management. Keep an eye out for the following hallmark signs:To protect ourselves and others from summer conjunctivitis, we can take specific preventive measures:In case you are diagnosed with conjunctivitis, follow these steps:As the summer season approaches and we all engage in various outdoor activities, the risk of summer conjunctivitis becomes more prevalent for everyone. Let’s be vigilant and take necessary precautions to protect our eye health. By staying informed, educating ourselves, and taking preventive measures, we can ensure a safer and healthier summer for all. Remember, seeking professional medical advice is crucial for accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment. Together, we can safeguard our eye health and make the most of the summer season!Despite the miles and time zones that separate friends, it is possible to stay connected with friends and create lasting memories and strengthen bonds. Here are things to do in order to stay connected with friends and foster friendships that stand the test of distance and time:Starting with the basics, use messaging apps like WhatsApp, Telegram, and WeChat which have become integral to our daily lives, to enable real-time communication and send updates and stay connected with friends. With just a few taps, you can send messages, photos, videos, and voice recordings instantly, making it easy to catch up or share important information. Use them to create personal or group chats, and schedule audio and video calls to have a more personal touch. Moreover, messaging apps prioritise privacy and security through end-to-end encryption and additional features like passcodes or fingerprint authentication, so your secrets will be safe. Use emojis, stickers, and GIFs to add fun and expression, making conversations engaging and use custom avatars to add a personal touch. While nothing replaces face-to-face interactions, messaging apps revolutionise global communication, bridging the gap and fostering meaningful connections.Audio and video calls and the way people communicate were revolutionised with platforms like Skype, Zoom, and FaceTime, enabling more intimate and personal conversations. Additionally, messaging apps too can be used for the same reason. Audio calls are good but with video calls and its features like screen sharing, enhancing remote training and learning, you can bridge the distance gap during special occasions, connecting you virtually and helping you stay connected with friends regardless of geographical boundaries. These calls also foster a sense of community, uniting like-minded individuals through group calls for book clubs, discussions, or support groups. While audio and video calls have undeniable advantages, balancing virtual and in-person interactions remains essential, recognising the unique warmth and connection only face-to-face conversations provide. If you are more of a text person or the busy schedule and time zones do not support your time to talk online, you can still strengthen friendships and maintain connections by sharing photos and videos with friends. Make sure to keep them involved in your journey regardless of physical distance. Capture memorable moments from your life, from your time online and create a shared album or drive for collective reliving. Visual moments create lasting memories, keeping friends engaged and part of your life’s journey. Additionally, collaborate on projects like writing stories, creating artwork, or compiling playlists to foster creativity, teamwork, and a sense of accomplishment. Set clear goals and maintain open communication throughout, celebrating the shared achievements in order to stay connected with friends. Embrace these opportunities to bring friends together, overcome distance, and create lasting connections through shared experiences and creativity.Even if you cannot be together physically, virtual game nights on online gaming platforms offer a delightful way to connect with friends and create lasting memories, irrespective of the physical distance. Start by selecting a game suitable for your group’s interests and preferences, ensuring it allows multiple players in order to stay connected with friends. Choose a platform supporting online games and voice chat, and send out invitations with the date, time, and game details.  During the event, set up a video call alongside the game for a lively atmosphere and use the voice chat feature to communicate and share laughter. Add some friendly competition and prizes to enhance the fun. Afterwards, reflect on the experience and express gratitude, fostering closer bonds and anticipation for future virtual gatherings. Gather your friends, pick a game, and let the fun begin!Stay connected with friends across different time zones by participating in virtual events like watching movies, TV shows, webinars, or online concerts together. Use streaming platforms like Netflix Party or Disney+ GroupWatch or use other free online platforms to synchronise viewing experiences and chat about the content in real time. Join online communities or forums for shared interests to engage in virtual events, discussions, and game tournaments with like-minded individuals. If you are more into gaming, enjoy multiplayer online gaming, setting up regular sessions or competing in tournaments to bond over shared experiences and camaraderie. Schedule regular video calls for catch-ups and virtual coffee dates, ensuring a strong connection and shared updates. Overcome the distance by embracing technology and fostering meaningful connections with your friends, regardless of the distance.More than just sharing, you can use your time online to learn too. Transform the barriers into opportunities by engaging in language exchange sessions during video calls, strengthening bonds and language skills. Create themed sessions to practice each other’s languages, explore new vocabulary, and share cultural insights. Utilise online platforms for structured language exchange activities and resources and stay connected with friends. Plan virtual travel experiences together, exploring the world through tours, documentaries, and cooking traditional dishes from different cultures. Immerse yourselves in these experiences, exchanging travel tips and creating shared memories. Establish a shared digital space, like a private blog or social media group, to collaborate and stay updated on each other’s lives. Embrace creativity and innovation in maintaining strong friendships across time zones, ensuring distance does not diminish your connections.And best of all, plan when you will meet next. Maintain anticipation by discussing and planning future visits, and researching travel options and potential dates. Create a shared Pinterest board or Google Doc for ideas and recommendations. Save the places you want to go and visit. Bookmark the activities you want to do when together. And explore places near where you or your friend stays or plan a weekend trip to either of the places or even better, plan a trip to a new city or country to experience the new place together.In the meantime, keep organising virtual events or celebrations for special occasions, engaging in activities like online games or surprise deliveries. And even collaborate on remote projects or hobbies, like virtual book clubs or joint creative endeavours to ensure you stay connected with friends. Of course, nothing beats the physical meeting but it is a relief.However, we must acknowledge that many women struggle to continue breastfeeding due to inadequate workplace support. This is a pressing issue that demands immediate attention from governments, employers, and society as a whole.Breastfeeding is not just a personal choice; it is a fundamental right that every woman should be able to exercise without compromising her career. Workplace challenges remain the most common obstacle for women who either do not breastfeed or cut their breastfeeding journey short. As society evolves and women increasingly participate in the workforce, it is essential to create an environment that supports their dual roles as mothers and professionals. Maternity leave plays a pivotal role in enabling this. While some countries offer adequate paid maternity leave, there are still over half a billion working women who lack access to essential maternity provisions.World Breastfeeding Week 2023 highlights the urgent need for a minimum of 18 weeks of paid maternity leave, ideally extending to more than six months. Longer maternity leave not only facilitates the bonding between mother and child but also allows mothers to breastfeed for a more extended period, leading to better health outcomes for both.Returning to work after maternity leave can be a daunting experience for new mothers, especially when it comes to breastfeeding. Employers must recognise the value of a breastfeeding-friendly workplace. Sadly, only 42 countries currently mandate these types of facilities in workplaces, leaving countless working mothers without the support they need. We must challenge this status quo and encourage employers to invest in providing appropriate accommodations to ensure that working mothers can breastfeed their children without stress or discomfort.Beyond physical facilities, flexible return-to-work options are crucial. The transition back to work can be overwhelming for new mothers, and having the flexibility to accommodate breastfeeding or expressing milk should not be a luxury but a basic right. By implementing such provisions, employers can demonstrate their commitment to supporting the well-being of their employees and their families. Promoting breastfeeding at work is not just about enhancing individual health outcomes; it is also an investment in a sustainable future.Breastfeeding has a positive impact on children’s lifelong development and health, which ultimately contributes to building healthier societies and workforces. Moreover, it is essential to recognise that when women receive comprehensive support to balance work and breastfeeding, it benefits everyone involved – from families to employers and the broader community.As we celebrate World Breastfeeding Week, we call upon governments, policymakers, and businesses to step up their efforts to support working mothers. We must establish robust maternity protections, ensuring that all women, irrespective of their work, have access to at least 18 weeks of paid maternity leave and workplace accommodations. It is our collective responsibility to create an inclusive and nurturing environment that allows women to embrace their roles as both caregivers and professionals.Let us seize this opportunity to champion best practices in workplace-related breastfeeding support, providing every working mother with the tools she needs to succeed in both her personal and professional life. By doing so, we will not only foster healthier families but also build a stronger and more equitable society for generations to come. Let World Breastfeeding Week 2023 serve as a catalyst for change, empowering working mothers and paving the way for a brighter, more supportive future for all.These Nepali novels offer insights into Nepali society, giving readers a unique perspective to perceive things deeply. They have the power to teach and evoke emotions that were previously unexplored. However, reading these can be difficult if you do not have a proper grasp of the Nepali language.If you want to start reading Nepali you should stay away from complex books. Yes, reading is important to get better but if you are trying to develop the habit of reading Nepali, you must read a Nepali novel that is simple and relatable. Books that are complex to read can discourage your effort to develop the habit of reading books as it could take you a long time to understand them.To help you out, we have compiled a list of 10 Nepali novels suitable for beginners, aiming to cultivate reading habits while improving their Nepali vocabulary.Authored by Narayan Wagle, Palpasa Café revolves around the story of an artist, Drishya, amidst the Nepali Civil War. This Nepali novel is partly a love story of Drishya and Palpasa, who has returned to the land of her parents after the terrorist attack in the US on September 11, 2001. The novel is often known as an anti-war novel and exhibits the effects of the civil war on the Nepali countryside that Drishya travels to.Modiaain by BP Koirala is a captivating tale set in the era of Mahabharata, where the protagonist, a grocer’s wife, shares the epic narrative with a child, offering a unique and insightful woman’s perspective on the timeless tale. This Nepali novel portrays the story of a woman who tragically loses her husband during the war, reflecting the experiences of many women who faced similar heartbreaking losses.Summer Love, released in 2013, is Subin Bhattarai’s debut novel. The plot of the book depicts the story of a college student of the Central Department of Environmental Science (CDES) at Tribhuvan University falling in love. With over 20,000 copies sold, this Nepali novel became a best-selling book in Nepal and ranked among the top sellers for the year. Additionally, the novel is available in both English and Nepali, catering to a diverse readership.Seto Dharti, authored by Amar Nyaupane is a Madan Puraskar-winning Nepali novel. The book depicts the story of Tara who got married at the age of seven and became a widow at the age of nine. At her adult age, she leaves her father’s house as she gets abused by her stepmother and moves to Devghat, a religious place for Hindus. The novel shows the bitter reality of Nepali society where women have to suffer extremely before the eradication of many evil practices, such as child marriage. Loo by Nayanraj Pandey depicts the lifestyle of the people of the Tarai and revolves around the issues such as poverty, discrimination and torture. The plot of this Nepali novel is based on the Tarai, the southern plain of Nepal near the Indian border. The novel is basically about the subalterns who are being excluded by the mainstream political force.Karnali Blues, written by Buddhi Sagar expresses the struggle of a lower middle-class father in the Far Western Region of Nepal from the lens of his son. This Nepali novel has a  great presentation as it can move the readers along with the characters in the story.The novel predominantly unfolds through flashbacks, beautifully portraying the evolving perception of the son towards his father. Karnali is also available in both English and Nepali. The English translation done by Michael Hutt was launched in 2021.   Kattel Sir Ko Chotpatak, authored by Dhruba Chandra Gautam, depicts the story of a professor struggling with poverty and corruption in society. In the novel set in the 1980s, an upright professor faces the daunting task of upholding his moral principles in the face of poverty and corruption. This Nepali novel’s compelling story was later adapted into the popular 1984 movie ‘Basudev,’ featuring acclaimed actors Neer Shah and Harihar Sharma.Chhail means shadow in the Doteli language, a local language of Doti, Sudharpaschim province. The novel has illuminated the culture, lifestyle and dignity of ancestors.  The novel depicts the story of Jitu who went through a lot of struggle in the city and later returned to the village to join the university. The relationship between father and son is beautifully portrayed in the novel. This Nepali novel, written by Lok Raj Bhatta, includes untold stories of many fathers.Even though non-fiction, Bhuiyan, penned by Yangesh, depicts the stories of marginalised communities in the Tarai. Besides the story of suffering, the book comprises the struggle of people against the remnants of the feudal system that continue to afflict numerous communities in the region. Chuli, written by Saru Bhakta, is a lively account of the courage to accept the challenge of climbing mountains. The interesting experience of an Everest climber has been beautifully featured in the book.  The book not merely tells about the beauty of Everest but also exposes the risk, accidents and deaths that transpire on Everest. In Nepal, dengue has become a recurring public health problem, with outbreaks occurring during the monsoon and post-monsoon seasons due to favourable mosquito breeding conditions. Efforts by the government and international organisations have been focused on surveillance, prevention, and control measures to combat the disease. However, despite the efforts, it continues to spread across the country.Dengue fever is a painful viral infection transmitted by Aedes mosquitoes to humans in tropical and subtropical regions. Symptoms include high fever, severe body aches, and, in severe cases, shock and hemorrhagic fever. It affects nearly half of the global population and demands immediate medical attention.The virus is transmitted through the bite of infected Aedes mosquitoes. Dengue is caused by one of four closely related dengue viruses (DENV-1 to DENV-4) and can lead to severe complications, including internal bleeding. It cannot spread directly from person to person and requires the presence of mosquitoes for transmission.Nepal has witnessed multiple dengue outbreaks over the years. In 2022, the country reported a staggering 54,784 dengue cases and 88 deaths, a significant increase from previous years. In 2023, cases have continued to rise, with thousands of infections reported in different provinces.As of July 24, 2023, a total of 4,289 dengue cases have been identified across 69 districts in Nepal. Koshi province reported the highest number with 2,754 cases, followed by Bagmati province with 667 cases, Gandaki Province with 344 cases, and Sudurpaschim Province with 316 cases.The top 10 districts account for 85 per cent of all reported cases, with Sunsari having the highest number at 2,542 cases, followed by Dhading (401), Kaski (205), Darchula (190), Kathmandu (80), Sankhuwasabha (64), Myagdi (54), Kanchanpur (52), Rupandehi (45), and Morang (38).Among the reported cases, three deaths have been confirmed, with one associated with severe dengue shock syndrome and two linked to dengue and other comorbidities.Common symptoms: High fever (40°C/104°F), severe headache, pain behind the eyes, muscle and joint pains, nausea, vomiting, swollen glands, and rash.Severe symptoms: Severe abdominal pain, persistent vomiting, bleeding gums or nose, fatigue, restlessness, blood in vomit or stool, thirst, pale and cold skin, and weakness.Warning signs of severe dengue: Severe stomach pain, persistent vomiting, bleeding from gums or nose, blood in urine, stools, or vomit, bleeding under the skin, difficult or rapid breathing, fatigue, irritability, restlessness.Diagnosing dengue infection involves a variety of blood and imaging tests. If you experience symptoms after being near dengue-infected individuals, inform your doctor for evaluation.Standard tests include the complete blood count (CBC) to check platelet count and anaemia associated with severe dengue. The dengue serology test detects post-exposure antibodies after four days.The dengue virus antigen detection (NS1) confirms early infection within 1-2 days of exposure. For severe cases, additional tests like liver function tests (LFT) and renal function tests (RFT) identify dengue’s impact on the liver and kidneys.The ECG evaluates heart disturbances due to electrolyte imbalances, and the ultrasound abdomen (USG) investigates abdominal conditions like fluid buildup. Chest X-ray identifies pleural and pericardial effusions. Other tests like D-dimer, 2D echocardiography, fibrinogen, and fibrin degradation products (FDP) help assess severe complications and bleeding in dengue hemorrhagic fever.Dengue is a viral disease transmitted by mosquitoes that are active during the day. Protecting yourself from mosquito bites is crucial to lower the risk of contracting dengue.Here are some preventive measures:If you do get infected with dengue, it’s important to take the following steps:Currently, the only approved vaccine for dengue is Dengvaxia, which is effective for individuals with evidence of past dengue infection. However, several other dengue vaccine candidates are undergoing evaluation. Preventing dengue involves not only protecting yourself but also minimising mosquito breeding grounds. Remove sources of standing water, such as old tires, cans, and flower pots, which are common breeding sites for mosquitoes.Dengue fever treatment primarily revolves around symptom management and providing supportive care, as there is currently no targeted antiviral therapy for the dengue virus itself. Here are key elements of dengue fever treatment:It is important to remember that there is no specific antiviral medication for treating dengue fever. Hence, the focus of treatment lies in alleviating symptoms and preventing complications. If you suspect you or someone else has dengue fever, seek immediate medical attention, especially if symptoms worsen or become severe.In conclusion, dengue fever remains a serious global health threat, particularly in tropical regions like Nepal. Effective prevention, early detection, and supportive care are vital in combating its impact on individuals and communities. Continuous efforts by governments, organisations, and individuals are necessary to control and mitigate the spread of this debilitating disease.When it comes to heels specifically, there are a multitude of styles ranging from casual designs to more formal options. From classic pumps to trendy platforms, there are different types of heels for every occasion. But with so many types of heels available, it can be overwhelming to choose the perfect pair and match them with the right dress. Here are some common types of heels and tips on how to effortlessly match them with various dresses, ensuring you step out in style every time.Classic pump heels are a timeless and versatile style of women’s footwear. They are typically characterised by a closed toe, a high heel, and a low-cut front, exposing the top of the foot. Classic pumps are usually made of leather, suede, patent leather, or synthetic materials and come in various colours and heel heights.The feature of this heel, a closed toe and a moderate heel height, make them versatile and suitable for both formal and casual events. These types of heels are perfect for almost any dress style, but they shine best with knee-length or midi dresses. Opt for a bodycon dress for a sophisticated look or a fit-and-flare dress for a touch of femininity.The ultimate symbol of glamour and sensuality, stilettos have an ultra-thin and high heel. They add instant allure and elongate the legs. These types of heels usually are elevated by anywhere between four to six inches, closed at the front, and come in a million different designs.Stilettos heels have very versatile looks. Just a pair of black or nude stilettos are enough to cover you for the office, party or anything casual. It also goes with any random outfit from your wardrobe. These also look great with formal dresses and events. But they go stunningly with body-hugging dresses or flowy maxi dresses for a red-carpet-ready appearance.Wedge heels are perfect if you have never worn a pair of heels before and need some practice. Wedge heels are one of the most comfortable and flattering options for anyone who needs a height boost. The heel sits on a triangular, unbroken ‘slice’, which runs solidly to the middle or front of the foot. These heels are very comfortable and can be used daily. Wedges offer style and comfort with their solid, broad heels that run from the back to the front of the shoe, providing stability and ease of walking.Wedge heels are not formal types of heels they mostly go with a casual look. The fashion brand “wedges heels pair wonderfully with casual summer dresses like flared skirts, and maxi dresses for a cool look and it can also go along with jeans, and A-line dresses. They create a chic bohemian vibe when matched with flowy, floral dresses.”Block heels are also known as chunky heels. Block heels are comfortable as well as glamorous. The heels provide the much-desired height and a tall silhouette. A wider heel area translates into a comfortable wearing and walking experience.Block heels have various bases varying from rectangular, square, and cylindrical. These types of heels have thick width of the projected heel that covers most of the ankle area of the shoe. This design provides better support and stability without compromising on style. Block heels are classic and trendy at the same time.Block heels can be styled casually in any way due to their versatile design and shape. They can go with any kind of outfit like shift dresses, wrap dresses, and even denim dresses. For a trendy look, it is recommended to pair block heels with a midi-length shirt dress.Platform heels and block heels look kind of similar but there is a difference. Platform heels are those types of heels that are thick and chunky at the front of the shoe, making it comfortable to walk around, unlike your regular pointed shoes. It is especially for the summer and spring seasons. They come in various styles, including pumps, sandals, wedges, and boots, and they can have varying heights of platforms and heels.Platform heels can be worn for both formal and casual occasions, depending on the style and material. They are a popular choice for parties, nights out, weddings, and other events. These heels look great with bodycon mini dresses, short cocktail dresses, and edgy asymmetrical dresses. They add a touch of drama to any outfit.Ankle strap heels have a strap that wraps around the ankle, providing extra support and style. They come in various heel heights and designs. The strap helps keep the foot secure within the shoe, providing extra stability and reducing the risk of the foot slipping out while walking or dancing in high heels. Among the many types of heels, ankle strap heels are popular for their elegant and chic appearance. The strap adds a stylish element to the shoe, creating a flattering look that accentuates the ankle and complements various outfits. These heels can be worn with a wide range of outfits, from casual to formal attire. They look great in dresses, skirts, and jeans. Ankle strap heels can make anyone look versatile by styling them with the outfit on many occasions. Peep-toes are one of the most elegant and appealing types of heels. The heels come in all lengths, but the higher the heel, the hotter this style looks. They come with an opening at the front, making the toes look like they are peeping, hence the name. As the feature an opening at the toe area, giving a glimpse of your pedicure and adding a playful touch to your ensemble.Peep-toe heels can be worn with ankle-length trousers, short dresses or anything that is fitted and figure-hugging. Due to its design of open-toe design, Painting your nails some bold and dramatic colours to make them pop and attract attention. These types of heels can complement fit-and-flare dresses, high-low dresses, and cocktail dresses. Peep-toe heels are ideal for semi-formal events and parties.Kitten heels are short and cute types of heels. It has narrow heels that are primarily defined by their height: usually between one to three inches tall. Kitten heels are low, slender heels that offer a subtle lift. Many women prefer wearing kitten heels because they are easier to walk in, compared to their high-heel counterparts, but are seen as more elegant than a simple flat. They exude a classic and sophisticated charm.Kitten heels can be perfect for daytime events and workwear, as they go well with midi-length dresses, pencil dresses, jumpsuits and leather dresses.Slingback heels are those types of heels with an ankle strap that wraps around the back and sides of the ankle, right above the heel. These heels have a strap that wraps around the back of the heel, providing a secure fit and a touch of elegance.The open-back design allows for better airflow and breathability, which can be especially comfortable during warmer weather. The strap around the back of the foot helps keep the shoe in place and prevents the foot from sliding forward.Sling-back heels have a versatile look due to their strap at the back. They are suitable for both formal and semi-formal occasions. These heels look great with dresses that show your ankles which create a center of attraction on heels. These types of heels can be worn with sheath dresses everyday casual outfits, and jeans with ankle length.Mules are a type of backless footwear, typically characterised by a closed-toe front and an open back, which allows the foot to easily slide in and out. Mules can come in various styles, including flat mules, block heel mules, stiletto mules, and more, making them versatile and suitable for a range of occasions.Mules heels come in various heel heights and add a modern edge to any outfit. Stylish mules heels are effortless and versatile. As per research mules heels can be used for chic and casual to official looks. These types of heels look fabulous with shirt dresses, wrap dresses, and jumpsuits. Packed in the smallest of wrappers, came memories for many of the ‘90s kids. While many might cherish eating and purchasing these candies and toffees, others might get nostalgic for the more emotional memories they have tied together with them. Here are a few bites from the past to remember:Remember those orange balls? One could get four chocolates for a rupee; it was pure childhood joy. The bite-sized fun they offered was enough to share with three close friends, creating sweet moments of joy. And let’s not forget those black balls, with their spicy kick! And many remember it as just black orange balls but it was called Rimjhim.Like orange balls, lacto fun was another pocketful delight for every 90s kid! The candy with caramel and milky goodness was a treat for those with a sweet tooth for over two decades. Be it collecting the wrappers to get free chocolates or that competition or thrill to pull the wrappers as long as one could; one still looks back to those memories and smile.Ghurra, a sweetener and a toy combined! This spinning candy was pink in colour with nine edges and a string wrapped around it, and always brought joy to one’s heart. Children used to buy it to just eat or play with it by pulling on the strings attached to both sides. Savouring on a ghurra while it spun round and round was a fun experience!It was officially Runiu cow candy, but ‘90s kids know it as gai chocolate. And this candy still evokes memories of its milky sweetness. The small square or rectangular candy that was slightly sticky and chewy, brought smiles to the faces, filled with nostalgia that is timeless.Not many might remember but this simple-looking toffee was a favourite of many. It held so much meaning and even had become a way to show love and care. More than just a toffee, love birds were a medium of expressing affection. Wrapped in a white wrapper with blue borders and a rabbit in the middle, these white rabbit toffees were a milky delight that has stood the test of time. It is one of those childhood favourites that you can enjoy even today. Available in different packages, one can enjoy this candy individually or in packets.The crispy and crunchy wafer of choco fun brought joy to one’s taste buds. It was more than just a snack; it was a way to make new friends and show appreciation on special occasions like birthdays. Those moments of bonding over choco fun will forever be cherished. Like white rabbit, one can still find this locally produced wafer but there are other copied variants too.The soft and rich caramel shell filled with a smooth, melting brown chocolate centre of eclairs and chocolairs was an absolute delight. These candies were like indulging in chocolaty goodness, leaving us wondering about the magic behind its chocolaty allure.The tangy green mango flavour of kachha mango candy was a delightful treat for one’s taste buds. It perfectly blended the sweetness of juicy mangoes with a hint of tanginess, leaving us craving more. And this one too is still available in the market, so if you have not tried it already or want to relive the taste, you can go to the candy stores near you.Like kaccha mango, this candy too packed the goodness of real, juicy mangoes. Mango bite candies were very distinct with their unique packaging, and the taste was simply irresistible. You can find these candies even today; a true taste of nostalgia with every bite.Chocolate and caramel in perfect harmony, is what this melody chocolate was for many. Melody toffies held this mystery of its intense chocolaty taste, and as advertised, the mystery of its chocolaty goodness, only added to the charm.The milk chocolate candy coins wrapped in gold foil were a treasure in the hands of a ‘90s kid; one would be chocolaty-rich. They made one feel like little merchants with sweet riches to share and enjoy. But once peeled, it told a different story.The rich blend of coffee and creamy toffee in coffy byte candies was an unforgettable combination. Its smell was equally enticing. Getting one’s hands on these toffees would have been a sweet treat that left one craving more. Another mouthwatering delight from the ’90s was mango tart. It was filled with mango-flavoured gooey inside and was a heavenly treat that one couldn’t get enough of. Its taste, even today, would be enough to take one back to the sweet memories of those carefree days.This white mint or peppermint candy is not just a breath freshener; but also a nostalgic taste of coolness. The refreshing sensation of popping a polo is still etched fresh in the memories. Available in different sizes, even today, buying was enough to share with the friends’ group.Tangy and tasty, hajmola candies were the favourite of many. It came in two flavours; mango (green) and tamarind (pink). Not only were they a delightful treat, but they were also believed to aid digestion, making them a comforting indulgence after every snack.The rich milky caramel toffee of alpenliebe was another thing ‘90s kids looked forward to during their lunchtime. With its array of flavours, it was a sweet pleasure and there was a flavour for everyone. Its catchy and cartoony ads added to the allure, making it a candy that always brought a smile to one’s face.The creamy taste of milk and caramel in londonderry candies was simply divine. Packed in red wrappers, this blend of flavours brought comfort and warmth, leaving us with a sense of contentment. Though not available since the early 90s these became more common in the later years, quickly becoming a favourite here.For those who enjoyed hajmola, rasilo was another unique candy that tantalised the taste buds with its salty and spicy flavour. The mixture of herbs and traditional spices created a mouthwatering experience and a nostalgic reminder of flavours from one’s childhood.Unlike other chocolates though this was not easily available in the candy stores. They were more popular as a form of prasad (offering). But if one could get their hands on this then they would be unable to stop themselves from eating it. These minty, sugary sweets were like small bundles of joy. Here are some steps to identify your body shape and find dresses that suit your size.Take accurate measurements:The first step is to take measurements of your body. Measure your shoulder, bust, waist, and hips. Use a measuring tape and make sure it is levelled and snug but not too tight. Note down the measurements for reference.Based on the measurements, identify the body proportion and dress accordingly. While there are various dress types for body shapes and many inspiring ideas, it still is a challenge to pull off a suitable one for your body type. Here are some tips to follow:A pear-shaped body, also known as a triangle shape, refers to a body type characterised by having wider hips and thighs in comparison to the bust and shoulders. This body shape is named after it resembles the pear, where the lower body is fuller and broader than the upper body. If your hips are wider than your bust and your waist is well-defined, you likely have a pear-shaped body.The triangle body shape is the most curvaceous. It’s easy to notice it by looking at the legs as they are visually wider, fuller, and more muscular than other body parts. Dresses that emphasise your upper body and define your waist. According to the style craze, for a pear-shaped body, if you wear, an A-line or fit-and-flare dresses are flattering, as they highlight your waist and flow over your hips. Wide-legged pants, A-line skirts, or dresses with patterned or ruffled tops that add definition to the upper body look great. Skinny jeans with loose tops help create an hourglass illusion. Crop tops, sweetheart, V or deep-V, padded jackets and tops, and scoop, or boat necks will balance your bottom.An apple-shaped body, also known as an oval or round shape, refers to a body type characterised by carrying weight predominantly in the midsection, specifically around the abdomen. This body shape is named after the resemblance to an apple, where the mid-section is rounder and fuller compared to the arms, legs, and hips.If your bust and shoulder are larger compared to your hips, and you carry weight around your midsection, you likely have an apple-shaped body. While choosing dresses that draw attention away from your midsection. Empire waist or wrap dresses work well, as they create a flattering silhouette by defining the smallest part of your waist.For an apple-shaped body if you try an A-line or empire cuts are ideal for you. According to the style craze, wear printed dresses or patterned jackets that add a layer to shift the focus. Monochrome looks, dark colours, full or three-quarters-sleeve dresses, and flowy tops will help. You could also wear flared bottoms, palazzos, etc., to create a balance. Also, since your shoulders are broad and you might already have a bigger bustline, ensure you wear the right bra.The hourglass body shape is considered to be the most classic and balanced silhouette, often associated with a feminine and curvaceous figure. It is characterised by well-defined curves at the bust and hips, with a narrower waist in between.Hourglass body shapes are often considered highly desirable and versatile for fashion choices. The goal when dressing an hourglass figure is usually to highlight and accentuate the natural curves while maintaining balance.Dresses that cinch at the waist will be the best fit for an hourglass body shape. V or plunge V and sweetheart necklines help to flaunt your upper body. As well to flaunt your waistline, go with a belt at your natural waistline or below the belly button. A-line, wrapped and bodycon dresses will define the shape of your body beautifully.The rectangle body shape, also known as the straight or athletic body shape, is characterised by a more athletic and straight silhouette with minimal waist definition.Rectangle body shape is a well-defined straight shoulder line consistent with the hips. If your bust, waist, and hips have similar measurements with minimal waist definition, you likely have a rectangle-shaped body. People with this body type don’t have curves like those with pear or apple bodies. Often you’ll appear straight with flat shoulders.When it comes to dressing for a rectangle body shape, the goal is to create the illusion of curves and enhance your natural proportions. Dresses that add definition to your bottom and necklines that add meat to the upper body. Sleeveless, strapless, and sweetheart lines are best for a rectangle body shape. More layered dresses and fit-to-flare dresses like wearing a fit top with a flared skirt or pants will add more value to your shape.The inverted triangle is the most athletic-looking body type. Your shoulders are much broader than your hips. If your shoulder is larger compared to your hips, with little to no waist definition. Their body follows the shape of a “V”, and their shoulders may be straight, squared, or athletic-looking.Inverted triangle shapes focus on dresses that balance your proportions. According to the fashion influencer Gabrielle Arruda, A-line dresses, V-necklines, and styles with fuller skirts can create a more balanced look. The best pair of jeans that work with an inverted triangle body shape would be the boyfriend jean.Consider fabric and patterns choose fabrics that drape well and skim over your body rather than clinging tightly. Option for vertical patterns or details to create the illusion of length and balance.Reading books allows human minds to interpret stories uniquely, create a different universe and appreciate diverse literary expressions. Moreover, reading is essential for acquiring knowledge, expanding horizons, and improving language and communication skills, benefiting personal and professional growth.Options on the starting book for new readers are plenty, but the idea is to start with one at a time. If you are just starting your reading journey, here are some books that you can start. This book is a timeless masterpiece–a powerful read–resonating with readers of all ages and an ideal book for new readers. To Kill a Mockingbird delves deep into the themes of racial injustice and the loss of innocence. It transports new and old readers to the 1930s, a period marked by segregation in the American South. Through the perspective of Scout Finch, the protagonist, the novel boldly confronts prejudice, morality, and compassion. Alongside her brother Jem, he embarks on a transformative journey guided by their father who falsely defends an accused black man in a rape trial. Reading through their journey, one learns profound lessons about empathy and the relentless battle against injustice. The narrative captivates with its unforgettable characters and thought-provoking content, prompting readers to reflect on the significance of understanding and advocating for what is right. Lee addresses crucial topics that remain relevant in our society today.If you are more romantic type then Jane Austen’s beloved classic, Pride and Prejudice is the book for new readers, offering a delightful and enlightening journey into Austen’s timeless storytelling. The book follows the lives and romantic pursuits of the Bennet sisters, with Elizabeth Bennet as the protagonist (the prejudice) and her romantic journey with Mr Darcy (the pride). When Elizabeth first encounters the wealthy and eligible bachelor, Mr Darcy, she harbours prejudice against him due to his perceived arrogance. Yet, as she gets to know him better, she discovers his true character: kind, intelligent, and honourable. As their love story unfolds, it highlights the importance of self-reflection, open-mindedness, and the complexities of human relationships.Set in the regency era, the book explores societal norms and expectations that heavily influence the middle-class Bennet sisters’ pursuit of suitable marriages. It further explores and gives subtle commentary on social class, marriage, and the consequences of prejudices, prideful characters, and characters with a sharp wit–all that remain captivating today.F. Scott Fitzgerald’s masterful novel, The Great Gatsby, is set in the Jazz Age, a period of prosperity and social change, and explores the fleeting nature of the ‘American Dream’. The story is told through the eyes of Nick Carraway and it plunges deep into the corrupting influence of wealth, and the superficiality that lies beneath society’s glamorous facade. In pursuit of his own American Dream, the narrator befriends his enigmatic millionaire neighbour, Jay Gatsby. He always hosts extravagant parties but yearns for something more and his relentless pursuit of his lost love, Daisy Buchanan, consumes him entirely.With Fitzgerald’s exquisite prose, the novel captures the excesses and disillusionment of the era, exploring themes of love, illusion, and the search for meaning. It serves as a lyrical and nuanced critique of the relentless pursuit of wealth and status, inviting readers to reflect on the human condition and the emptiness of materialism. This is a recommended read academically too, so it is a book for new readers to start with as well.Another great book for new readers is Herman Melville’s Moby-Dick. The novel is a complex and challenging masterpiece that narrates the themes of obsession, fate, and humanity’s struggle against nature. The plot of the story follows Captain Ahab’s relentless quest for revenge against the great white whale, Moby Dick.Melville’s richly detailed prose combines adventure, philosophy, and poetic descriptions of the sea, inviting new and old readers to explore the depths of human nature and the consequences of unchecked ambition. Immersed in the thrilling world of whaling, readers can ponder existential questions and delve into the intricacies of the human psyche.While Moby-Dick presents a challenge, it offers a deeply rewarding literary experience in every read, making it the perfect book for new readers. This profound and introspective novel may not appeal to everyone, but its status as a literary masterpiece ensures its lasting impact on those who venture into its pages.If you are more into fantasy then Gabriel García Márquez’s One Hundred Years of Solitude is a mesmerising magical yet realistic novel that paints a picture of different generations of the Buendía family in the fictional town of Macondo. With intricate storytelling and vivid imagery, readers can get into the depths of human existence, and explore the interconnectedness of generations over time. Márquez blends fantasy, history, love, and tragedy to create a captivating tale intertwined with the historical tapestry of Latin America. Through themes of time, memory, and the cyclical nature of life, the novel offers a profound reflection on the human experience, intertwining reality and myth in a unique narrative.It is an ideal book for new readers eager to explore the world of magical realism and discover the complexities of the human condition. Its memorable characters, including the resilient matriarch Úrsula Buendía and the enigmatic Melquíades, offer a rich reading experience. Inspiring for first-time readers, the novel offers valuable insights into the complexities of growing up, the pursuit of authenticity, and the yearning for connection. With its thought-provoking themes and relatable protagonist, The Catcher in the Rye is a superb choice for new readers exploring the realm of coming-of-age literature.J.D. Salinger’s iconic novel, The Catcher in the Rye, follows Holden Caulfield, an introspective and disillusioned teenager navigating the complexities of adolescence. Exploring themes of alienation, identity, and the loss of innocence, the novel captures the challenges and anxieties of youth through Holden’s distinctive voice. So, young readers, especially if they are starting their reading journey, can consider this book. Holden’s relatable character and his journey of self-discovery resonate with readers of all ages, making it a good choice when it comes to books for new readers. To the Lighthouse is writer Virginia Woolf’s modernist novel that incorporates stories that span a decade and centres around the Ramsay family and their visitors on the Isle of Skye. Through an introspective narrative, Woolf explores themes of perception, memory, and gender roles, over time which is why this is a recommended book for new readers.Written in a stream-of-consciousness style, the novel grants direct access to the character’s thoughts and emotions, offering a peek into the complexities of relationships and the subtleties of communication.To the Lighthouse is a beautifully crafted and introspective masterpiece that offers readers a profound exploration of the human psyche and the intricacies of the human experience. It is a compelling choice, a great book for new readers seeking a literary work that challenges traditional storytelling conventions.If you love the quote the universe conspires for you if you want something, then you will love this book as well. Paulo Coelho’s The Alchemist is an enchanting fable following Santiago, a young shepherd on a quest to fulfil his destiny. As he learns to pursue his dreams and listen to his heart, readers are inspired to reflect on their aspirations, finding purpose and passion in life.With an accessible writing style, uplifting message, and universal themes of self-fulfilment and personal growth, The Alchemist is an ideal choice for new readers. Coelho’s simple yet profound storytelling captivates readers, instilling hope and encouraging belief in oneself and the power of dreams. The novel imparts valuable lessons on resilience, self-discovery, and the transformative nature of belief, making it a captivating and enlightening book for new readers.If you want a different narrative then Markus Zusak’s The Book Thief is a poignant historical novel narrated by Death itself that will intrigue you. Set in Nazi Germany, it revolves around Liesel Meminger, a young girl who seeks solace in books amidst the horrors of war.Liesel’s journey unveils her resilience and resourcefulness as she learns to read and steals books for the same. Alongside her foster family, the Hubermanns, and her neighbour Rudy Steiner, she discovers the power of words, the significance of friendship, and the indomitable capacity for kindness and compassion even in the bleakest of times.The Book Thief serves as a profound testament to the transformative strength of literature, transcending circumstances and igniting hope. With its compelling storytelling, memorable characters, and profound lessons in empathy, courage, and the enduring power of stories, this is an immersive and enlightening experience making it a good book for new readers.Last but not least, this J.R.R. Tolkien’s epic fantasy trilogy is a must-read for all fantasy lovers. The Lord of the Rings series follows Frodo Baggins and a diverse group of companions on their quest to destroy the One Ring and save Middle-earth from the dark lord Sauron.With Tolkien’s masterful world-building, rich mythology, and memorable characters, this beloved classic book explores themes of heroism, friendship, sacrifice, and the eternal battle between good and evil. Through immersive storytelling, it transports all readers to a vividly imagined realm, testing courage and perseverance at every turn. This is a good book for new readers because it invites newcomers to embark on an unforgettable adventure and provides a profound exploration of the human spirit. It has transcended generations, captivating readers of all ages with its timeless and fictional but intriguing story. Siddhas in Ganga was initially planned for 2009 but for one reason or another, it kept being postponed. After years of delay, the exhibition came into existence. Moreover, there is so much to learn from this 75-year-old self-taught artist as his concepts and presentation of artworks are as unique as he is. He calls himself a spiritual artist as most of his artworks are based on spirituality and his spiritual practice as an astrologer.In this exhibition, you can witness his original paintings and drawings which he created during the 80s when he explored and travelled seeking the meaning of life and spirituality.The paintings and drawings in the exhibition are unique and different from regular paintings and drawings. His miniature realistic paintings are showcased in a long wooden frame and on them he has written his thoughts and facts about the paintings. His writings hold aesthetic value in executing his style of paintings.Like the title of the exhibition, Thapa’s major focus for the exhibition is the river banks and holy men. Besides, he has also depicted natural beauty, ghats, people and more.    The drawing on Nepali lokta paper and paintings on miniature Japanese ivory paper, which is a size of a playing card too makes this exhibition unique and a rarity. He has used black ink, and German Rotring isograph pen on Nepali lokta paper to blow life on his artworks. He used German Schmincke water colour mixed with the sacred water of the Ganga river while painting on Japanese ivory paper. Though the canvas size is of playing cards, he has not let any details get blurred. He has meticulously, patiently and willingly worked on every artwork exhibited in the exhibition.In one of his sketches, he depicted the landscape where the river Ganga is flowing and people are doing their chores at the bank. Then there are shrines and temples in the distance. He focused on the river and surprisingly you can notice the boulders forming the Devanagari style of Ganga. And below the sketch, in beautiful writings, the artist depicted that he had the firsthand experience of seeing the exact scene while he was attentively sketching the river Ganga.All these are his record from his ‘Daily Diary Ganga’ sketchbook, which he has to dismantle the book for the exhibition after 36 years. It holds a special memory for the artists of his travels and spiritual experiences.According to Sangeeta Thapa, director of Siddhartha Art Gallery, none of the works in this exhibition are for sale. She says, “This exhibition is a tribute to the artist Jimmy Thapa—it is an opportunity to converse with Jimmy, enjoy his artworks and partake in his philosophy.”Jimmy Thapa was born in October 1947 in Lumbini and left home at the age of 13 and travelled all over India.  And in his 20s he ended up on Freak Street (Jhochhen Tole) in Kathmandu and his outlook changed completely. He says, “There were hippies from all parts of the world. Wooh! Beautiful and board-minded people in colourful velvet clothes, playing silver flutes and guitars. There were musicians, astrologers, poets, writers, painters, tarot card readers… I felt it was the right place for me.”He ran an outlet called Jimmy’s Wagon at Freak Street and in the presence of hippies from all parts of the world, he enhanced his interests in spirituality, arts and astronomy.Moreover, he had illustrated for American poet Ira Cohen and his lady Petra Voght and it was his first experience with published artwork.In his artworks, there is a sense of his intimacy towards his subject and the world where he experiments with different art forms like miniatures, watercolours and line art.The exhibition continues till July 18.Starting as a passionate athlete and talented tennis player, Moktan has now become the country’s first professional powerlifter. He has achieved remarkable personal milestones and gained respect as a strength powerlifting coach. He has taken part in countless competitions in Nepal and abroad becoming one of to go to guys for powerlifting in the country.Now, Moktan, who is a strength powerlifting coach at Ox Strength, wants to continue grooming young talents. Having successfully coached multiple national champions, his passion continues to drive him to support and nurture young talent. He firmly believes that by providing guidance and mentorship to emerging athletes, he can contribute to putting Nepal on the global map of powerlifting.Tyson Moktan has been a highly competitive individual since his childhood. He embarked on his fitness journey at the age of 16 as he wanted to stay in shape. He was into sports from his childhood but gradually shifted to bodybuilding as he had a knack for it. As a year went by, he found his true passion – powerlifting.“As I have been competitive all my life, I wanted an outlet to pursue a gym lifestyle, so I initially explored bodybuilding and men’s physique. However, in the end, I realised that powerlifting was the perfect fit for me,” he says.Powerlifting is an extremely demanding form of fitness that requires immense dedication and effort. At the time when he started, Nepal had no professional powerlifters, but Moktan took it upon himself to pioneer the sport in the country.“I conducted extensive research and received online coaching, which significantly enhanced my skills and knowledge in powerlifting,” he says. However, finding suitable platforms for showcasing his talent was a challenge.“When I ventured into powerlifting, it was still a relatively new concept in our country. I was searching for a competitive outlet and started participating in local competitions in Nepal,” he says.Tyson Moktan has always made it a priority to stay updated with the latest information and technology in the fitness industry. He has crafted a routine that has remained consistent and rewarding since the beginning. His passion for the gym and the incredible outcomes it brings have made training an integral part of his life.“My fitness routine has remained the same since the beginning. I don’t feel the need to change it because I love doing it passionately. I can’t go a few days without training. It has become a natural part of my progression,” he says.Tyson Moktan’s first powerlifting competition in 2016 thrust him into the spotlight of the Nepali fitness industry. Following that, he became the first registered Crossfit L1 Trainer in Nepal and embarked on his coaching career.One of Moktan’s most impactful moments occurred in late 2017 when he achieved a monumental lift of 250 kg, a weight that no one from Nepal had accomplished before. This achievement strengthened his belief in the power of determination and motivated him to train even harder.“I felt like I could do anything if I put my mind to it. It was an incredible feeling of being on top of the world,” he says.From that day forward, Tyson Moktan dedicated himself to becoming a top powerlifter. Understanding his end goals, creating sustainable plans, and trusting the process became the key pillars of his success. Moktan has been a winner of the pump powerlifting meet open categories from 2016- 2018. In 2020, he also bagged the second position and set a national squat record with 245.5 kg during the Thailand National Championships U93. He aspires to continue pushing the boundaries in the sport as an athlete himself while helping other athletes and fitness enthusiasts reach their full potential.With his years of training, experience, education, and knowledge, Moktan has established Ox Strength to coach individuals virtually, aiming to achieve unimaginable goals.Tyson Moktan places great emphasis on the importance of proper planning in one’s fitness journey. He believes that sustainable progress and dedication can be achieved by getting in the zone and following a well-thought-out plan.“There is a quote that says, ‘Failing to plan is planning to fail.’ I strongly adhere to that. As long as you have a sustainable plan and a clear understanding of your end goal, planning and taking one step at a time while trusting the process is all you need,” he says.In a world where the lines can often be blurred by performance-enhancing drugs, Moktan firmly believes in maintaining a natural approach to fitness. He meticulously balances his diet and avoids relying on supplements, instead focusing on a wholesome approach to nutrition.“There is a clear distinction between protein shakes and performance-enhancing substances. I believe in staying natural and considering supplements as a convenient form of food that helps complete my protein intake,” he says.Reflecting on prevalent trends in the fitness industry, Moktan advocates for a discerning approach. While flashy movements may initially attract people to sports and fitness, he believes that true progress lies in sticking to the basics and understanding one’s journey.Moktan strongly believes in delivering quality content that offers valuable information to his followers. He remains dedicated to his small yet loyal audience who seek his coaching expertise and support him wholeheartedly. He consciously chooses not to chase fleeting trends or prioritise being at the top of social media.“I believe in sticking to the basics. I don’t force myself to follow the latest trends. Providing quality information and valuable tips is important to me. I have a small group of dedicated followers on social media, and that is what matters to us. We are not targeting a large audience who are just there for entertainment,” he says.Tyson Moktan’s coaching extends beyond the realm of powerlifting, as he also assists individuals on weight loss journeys and helps athletes achieve multiple national records.“Each client is unique, with different backgrounds, experiences, and challenges. Effective communication and understanding are crucial. I work closely with my clients to develop personalised training programs that ensure long-term success,” he says.With his unwavering dedication, pioneering spirit, and commitment to sustainable training, Tyson Moktan continues to make a lasting impact in the world of strength sports and coaching.But no matter the phone you have or the power of your phone camera, you can still click different types of photos and experiment with any form of photography on your phone from the following:Landscape photography is a way to capture the beauty of nature and breathtaking scenery using a camera. So, your phone camera can easily experiment with this form of photography. Most smartphones have a wide-angle lens, which is ideal for capturing expansive landscapes. Or simply you can take a few steps back or get high up somewhere with a nice view to capture the landscape before you.To enhance your shots, consider using a tripod or stabiliser to keep your phone steady and achieve sharper images. Experiment with different compositions, such as the rule of thirds, leading lines, or capturing the scene in the golden hour for that extra colour and vibrance. Landscape photography can be a great way to explore and appreciate the world around you.Like the landscape, your phone camera can be used to capture candid moments and the essence of everyday life in public spaces too. This can be called street photography, and this form of photography has been more common these days with content creators working in this niche.Use the primary lens of your phone, as it provides a natural perspective and discreteness. You can take your phone to the streets with you, as it is very easy to carry. You do not need a heavy-duty camera or lenses to do the same. And, with your phone, you can even blend in and capture genuine moments without attracting too much attention. Observe the people and their movements, and experiment with capturing interesting characters, unique architecture, or compelling street scenes. Focus on composition, timing, and storytelling to capture the energy and atmosphere of the streets.If you are not comfortable with taking photos of strangers or without their knowledge, then you can speak to the people and experiment with taking their photos too. And you can start with the people around you and experiment with this form of photography. After all, portrait photography is all about capturing the essence and personality of your subjects. Most smartphones have a front-facing camera optimised for selfies, but your rear camera provides higher resolution and some even have a dedicated mode with more depth-of-field control. Place your subject or the person you want to capture on the frame and experiment with different lighting conditions, such as natural light or portable LED light. You can also consider using accessories like portable reflectors or clip-on lenses for different effects. Experiment with different poses, backgrounds and compositions to create visually striking portraits that capture the essence and emotion of the person and also can tell a story.But if capturing people is not your comfort zone, try food photography. With many food bloggers or foodies on social media platforms, this form of photography has gained immense popularity. Use your phone’s primary lens and experiment with angles, lighting, and composition to capture your appetising meals, all the colours and the ingredients to create visually appealing shots. Consider using props, such as colourful plates or utensils, to enhance the composition. Here too, you can experiment with different settings and apps to adjust the exposure, saturation, and white balance to make the colours pop. Food photography allows you to get creative and showcase your culinary adventures in an artistic way. It can speak to both the shutterbug and the foodie in you.Another thing you can try is still-life photography. Though this form of photography might seem uninteresting at first, with the right observation skills, you can find different perspectives to see the same everyday items. Here too you can experiment with different compositions, either by positioning your subjects or playing with the lighting conditions and backgrounds to create interesting and artistic images, and overall tell a unique story of the lifeless objects around you. You can also consider using props, backdrops, or natural light or themes, colours, and textures to enhance the mood and aesthetics of your still-life shots. This is quite a niche in the photography world that enables the photographer to tell a story or evoke emotions in people and give them a fresh perspective.If you want to dive deep then you can also try macro photography. This involves capturing mid to extreme close-up shots of small subjects, revealing intricate details that often go unnoticed. Some smartphones have a dedicated macro lens, enough to piece out the details of things you want to capture.But if your phone does not have one, you can use the standard or default lens you got and get closer to your subject instead. The standard lens will have some limitations when it comes to focusing when we talk about this form of photography. But to mitigate that, you can buy clip-on lenses available in the market to go in deep and explore the macro world around you.For sharper images, stabilise your phone using a tripod or resting it on a stable surface, as the smallest of movements can disturb the focus. Experiment with different subjects like flowers, insects, or textures, and try different angles and lighting conditions to bring out the details and create stunning macro shots.If you want to experiment more and move beyond the kind of subject you capture from your phones, you can also try any form of photography from the following as well:The first you can try is black and white photography. This basic form of photography can add a timeless and artistic touch to your images. Most smartphone cameras have a monochrome mode or a dedicated filter that allows you to capture black-and-white photos, so it is just about switching to this mode. If your phone camera does not have it, then you can also edit it later and make your photos black and white.You can experiment with different subjects, textures, and lighting conditions to create high-contrast, dramatic images. Focus on shapes, lines, and patterns to create visually striking compositions, this one always works. Black and white photography encourages you to see the world in a different light and can add a sense of depth and emotion to your images.Moving beyond black and white, you can also try capturing your subjects in silhouettes. Silhouette photography involves capturing the dark outlines of subjects against a bright background, such as during sunrise or sunset or other artificial light sources like spotlights and more. When you go to the camera of your phone, use the auto-exposure lock feature on your phone’s camera. Put the subject against the bright background, while controlling the exposure and letting the subjects appear as silhouettes. For this form of photography, experiment with different angles and light sources, compositions, as well as capturing people, objects, or animals in silhouette form. You can also play with the positioning of the subject and the background elements to create unique silhouettes.If you are feeling more free, and do not follow any rules, try this form of photography. Abstract photography highly encourages one to explore and experiment with shapes, lights, colours, and patterns around them and express your creativity or artistic side that many might call eccentric.For this, you can use your phone’s camera to capture everyday objects from unique angles, focusing on the details, lines, strokes, colours, juxtapositions and other abstract elements. Experiment with movement, such as panning or long exposures, to create dynamic and intriguing images. Play with colour adjustments, editing tools, and filters to enhance the abstract qualities of your photographs to express more and more. In Nepal, discussions about going abroad or having family or friends living abroad are common topics in everyday conversations. It is prevalent for individuals to share their aspirations or experiences related to seeking opportunities abroad.These conversations are not only confined to rural areas where there are hardly any young men left as most of them have gone for foreign employment. While looking at the government data, the country has issued 5.7 million labour permits since 2006 and this trend is persisting, which eventually means the nation may face adverse consequences.With this trend and remittance coming in, it is not unusual to see rapid changes in the lifestyle and the environment in Nepali society.These very inevitable changes in lifestyle are causing the degradation or extinction of Nepali indigenous culture, tradition, knowledge and way of living. This, along with the Nepali society transitioning towards Western-driven modernity, has triggered artist Mann Gurung for his exhibition Lost in Transition II, which is being showcased at Siddhartha Art Gallery.Lost in Transition II is Mann Gurung’s continuation to address issues related to changes in Nepali society, which he exhibited in 2021 for the first time.  As you enter the gallery, you will first notice a huge painting, which is a portrait of a group of women and children against the coloured logos of firms.This simple-looking composition lets you see multiple realities of Nepal—poverty, hope, migrant labourers and absence of a husband, father, son or mother—and lets you ponder upon the nation and the need for urgency to address it.  He has used acrylic and mostly oil on canvas and used sepia hue in all his paintings that reflect the style of the 19 th century photographers. He says that his paintings are the record of the remaining indigenous lifestyle and his tribute to the men and women.In the exhibition, he has focused on their psychological condition which can be seen through the facial feature in the paintings. He has painstakingly shown the loneliness and resilience through their faces.There are a total of 24 paintings where the elderly men and women are seen in their traditional attires, however, the children are seen in modern clothing.“Through ‘Lost in Transition II’, I want to visually capture the vulnerable state of the people of these remote corners who were caught off guard by changes they did not choose,” Gurung says.He says that he tried to capture the visual expression of these people through paintings. “I take it as my artistic duty to represent the people of these remote villages archiving their images in visual form, for they are the generation retaining our culture, tradition and identity,” he adds.This exhibition represents people from the villages of Khorla, Uhiya, Singla, Laprak, Yamgaun and Runchet of the Northern Gorkha along the Budhi Gandaki river. He says, “In order to capture the lives of these people, I travelled from one village to another, knocking door to door and collecting visual data. As of now, few of the characters represented in this exhibition are no longer with us.”The exhibition began on July 3 and continues till July 18.A group art exhibition ‘Framing Perspectives: A Kaleidoscope of Art, Design, Craft and Photography Exhibition’ began on July 9 at Rich Museum of Craft and Design, Sunaguthi.This is the newest gallery, which has brought together six artists—Saurganga Darshandhari, Samjhana Rajbhandari, Krishna Gopal Shrestha, Chandra Shyam Dongol, Bijaya Maharjan and Sabin Sainju.In the exhibition, one can find a diverse range of artistic expressions under the theme of cultural heritage.Moreover, like the title of the exhibition, it features ever-changing patterns of art, design, craft and photography. Bijaya, also the curator of the exhibition says, “This exhibition celebrates the rich heritage of artistic expression while embracing the limitless possibilities of contemporary art.”The exhibition shares the synergies between various artistic practices, which integrate traditional and contemporary approaches, blurring the boundaries between art forms. The artworks on display demonstrate a profound exploration of techniques, materials and concepts, fostering a dialogue between the past and the present, the familiar and the unfamiliar.The visitors can encounter striking drawings, paintings and traditional sculptures that challenge conventions, provoke emotions and invite introspection. Each work of art has the artist’s individuality, their personal interpretation of the world around them.The exhibition continues till July 16.Summer throughout the world is synonymous with cocktails. But one cocktail, in particular, is the epitome of summer – the mojito.This cocktail made with white rum has captivated everyone around the world. Originating in the streets of Cuba, this cocktail has travelled the world. Many bartenders in the country and abroad feel that the mojito stands as a cocktail that embodies the spirit of relaxation and sophistication. It is a timeless classic that will live on for generations thanks to the bend of lime, mint, rum and soda. But crafty bartenders can do more with this drink. Some have created their own versions of the drink by incorporating different ingredients, herbs and fruits. Whether sipped on a tropical beach or enjoyed in a busy bar in Kathmandu on a Friday, the taste of this classic is the same.As temperatures rise in Kathmandu, this is the drink that you should opt for as it revitalises and invigorates the body and soul.Here are some facts about this age-old cocktail:Where is its origin?The exact origin of this cocktail is unclear, but it is believed to have originated in Cuba in the late 1800s.How should it be served?A mojito is typically served in a highball glass filled with ice and garnished with a sprig of mint and lime wedges.Why is it important to use Rum instead of Vodka in a traditional mojito?People may confuse the mojito as a vodka-based drink. However, the classic recipe of the mojito uses White Rum as the base spirit, as the flavour profile of the cocktail is significantly different when made with White Rum instead of Vodka. The White Rum adds a unique sweetness and complexity to the drink, while the vodka is more neutral in flavour.What type of Rum is used in it?Light or White Rum is typically used in a mojito. In Nepal you can get Khukri White Rum; Nepal’s one and only White Rum with delicate notes of tropical fruits, rich nutty undertones and a creamy character thus making it the perfect ingredient for a delightfully refreshing mojito.What food pairs well with it?The refreshing taste of a mojito pairs well with light and flavorful dishes such as seafood, salads, and grilled vegetables.Ingredients: White Rum, Mint leaves, Lime, White Sugar, SodaStep 1: Place some mint leaves and one live wedge in a tall sturdy glass. Crush the mint leaves using a muddler.Step 2: Add some more lime wedges and sugar syrup (or white sugar) and muddle some more.Step 3: Fill the glass with ice. (Crushed ice is better)Step 4: Add 30 ml white rum.Step 5: Top the glass off with soda water.Step 6: Garnish with mint leaves and lime wedge on top.Note: You can make a non-alcoholic version of the drink. All you need to do is not add White Rum.It is essential for everyone to comprehend this seasonal eye condition and take appropriate preventive measures to safeguard our eye health during the warmer months.As the summer season arrives, Nepal faces a recurring challenge with numerous cases of conjunctivitis, commonly known as pink eye, surfacing in different regions. The incessant rainfall over recent weeks has contributed to the spread of this eye infection in the Tarai region, Kathmandu Valley, and other provinces. The situation is worsened by waterlogging in several regions, and with the monsoon season underway, there has been a significant surge in conjunctivitis and eye flu cases.The unusual showers, flooding, and higher atmospheric moisture levels have created an ideal environment for the proliferation of bacteria and viruses, resulting in a drastic increase in infections. The rise in humidity and water contamination further exacerbates the nationwide spike in conjunctivitis cases.Summer conjunctivitis can stem from various sources, making us all susceptible to exposure. The main causes and modes of transmission include:Awareness is the first step towards overcoming any challenge. Recognising the symptoms of summer conjunctivitis is vital for early detection and prompt management. Keep an eye out for the following hallmark signs:To protect ourselves and others from summer conjunctivitis, we can take specific preventive measures:In case you are diagnosed with conjunctivitis, follow these steps:As the summer season approaches and we all engage in various outdoor activities, the risk of summer conjunctivitis becomes more prevalent for everyone. Let’s be vigilant and take necessary precautions to protect our eye health. By staying informed, educating ourselves, and taking preventive measures, we can ensure a safer and healthier summer for all. Remember, seeking professional medical advice is crucial for accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment. Together, we can safeguard our eye health and make the most of the summer season!Further, it has ensured inclusive provisions and other provisions have increased women’s participation comparatively at the local level as well. With all these provisions in Nepal’s constitution, the status of women’s representation at the local level is still unsatisfactory due to the loopholes of the law, which have hampered their representation.In 2017, Nepal marked a significant milestone by conducting its first elections after the adoption of the new constitution in 2015. This event was notable as it was the first time in more than 17 years that the country held elections at the local level under the federal republican political system. It was also a successful year in terms of women’s political empowerment and social inclusion as it saw representation from women and marginalised voters and candidates. The first local-level election after Republican Nepal was held in three phases.There were a total of 148,364 candidates and among them only 57,843 were female. Election Result book, 2074 (Page 31) published by Election Commission shows that 3,541 representatives were elected with which the number of female elected representatives was 14,352. It is 40.95 per cent. Out of 6,743 wards, 173 wards had no candidates of Dalit female candidates and women’s representation was hampered due to null candidacy.The second local-level election under the federal structure took place on May 13, 2022. According to the Election Commission, the number of adult voters was 17,733,723. Out of which, 8,741,530 were women. This is 49.29 per cent of the total voters. Election result book, 2022 (Page18) shows that from the local level election 2022, 35,221 representatives were to be elected directly. Among them, 14,239 seats are mandatory and secured for female representatives.However, the number of total elected female representatives in the local-level election in 2022 is 14,466. In this election, 123 wards out of 6,743 total wards had no candidate from Dalit female member and one ward was null in female member candidacy.The data analysed is from the latest election result book of the Election Commission. As per this, 41.21 per cent of women are among the total elected in 2022 compared to 40.9 per cent in 2017. In the first federal local level election 14,402 women got elected in 2022 compared to 14,352 in 2017. Based on the statistics, it is evident that there was a decline in the number of women contestants in the 2022 local elections compared to the 2017 elections. However, despite this downward trend, the final number of women who were successfully elected in the 2022 elections appears to be slightly higher than that of the 2017 elections.This clearly indicates the higher winnability displayed by the women candidates in the 2022 local elections. However, it has been found in practice that women are made candidates due to the compulsion of law and not for meaningful representation. For example, among two major posts at the local level, one is mandatory for female candidates where parties are compelled to contest female candidates but not by interest. The same thing is found in two female members of the ward committee. As a result, most of the heads of local-level and ward committees are male. In the last local level election, out of heads of 753 local level, only 25 females got elected as head of the local level. This number was 18 in 2017. It shows that the leading position is just made for males.The legislative intent for women’s representation is not just for the minimum but at least 50 per cent and in major posts as well. But the 15th Annual Report (2022) of the National Women Commission shows a very low representation of women in major posts from the last elections at the local level.The constitution of Nepal has highly emphasised ensuring gender justice almost in every sphere in comparison to previous constitutions.The local-level election is conducted on the basis of the Local-level Election Act, 2016. This act has ensured at least 50 per cent of women’s representation in major two posts at the local level and 40 per cent as a whole.Section 17(4) of the act states that while nominating either for head or deputy head of the local level, the political parties should arrange in such a way that at least a candidate for any one of two head positions should be women. At the same time, the further elaboration of the provision states that if the political parties contest for only one post of the head or deputy head of the local level, the above-mentioned provision will not be compulsory. Here we see the loopholes in the law. The same is found in the nomination of ward members as well which hampers women’s representation.The spirit of the law is to increase the meaningful representation of women but the play of parties in loops of law has hampered it. For that it should be provisioned that even an alliance of parties should not affect their representation, the reserved seat for females can be one of the solutions as well. So that in major positions, the political parties only contest female candidates and obviously one of the females will win.“It has been a busy few months for me. But I always like coming back home and eating food prepared by my mother and spending time with family,” says Waters from his home in North Carolina.Curtis Waters known as Abhinav Bastakoti, burst onto the scene with Stunnin in 2020. The song became so popular, it changed his life. Since then, he has been constantly on the move, creating music and touring extensively across the US as he strives to create music that resonates with people from different walks of life.Now, Waters intends to carry on with his passion, hoping to touch the hearts of people through his music. He also aspires to extend his reach to Nepal, with the desire to perform a show for his fans in the country where he was born.“So many Nepalis come to my show. I don’t know why but as I have aged, I have started developing connections with Nepal and Nepali,” he says adding he makes foreigners say Jay Nepal during his shows.Since his childhood, Curtis Waters has harboured a deep interest in music and dreamt of achieving popularity through it. And to an extent, he has realised his dream.All of this started when he came to Nepal when he was 14 years old for his Bratabandha. Given the poor internet connectivity and limited social connections, he began entertaining himself with the music production software on his laptop eventually learning to create beats.“I had had my first break up and wanted an escape. I found it through music,” said Waters.As he returned to the US, he started to spend most of his time inside his room making music instead of going to school.“I did not enjoy school. I only went to make my mom happy,” he said.This is why as soon as he returned from school, he would rush to his room and sit in front of his computer to make music.While other children of his age were busy watching cartoons and playing outdoors with their friends, Waters was engaged in making music and performing other creative things. Despite his love for music, he did not want to study music. A free-spirited person, Curtis Waters did not want to be bounded by rules. Having witnessed numerous individuals who have studied music struggle to create good music, he felt compelled to chart his own path and do things his own way.“I love that I have been able to do it my way. Everything I needed to know was on the internet and I made use of that,” he says.His dedication to music has been yielding remarkable results. His breakout hit Stunnin’ achieved significant recognition, reaching the impressive #3 position on Rolling Stone magazine’s Breakthrough 25 Chart for June 2020. Moreover, the song’s success extended beyond music charts, as it was even featured in a Mercedes-Benz advertisement.“Sometimes I look back and think how crazy all that was,” he says adding he did not expect the song to do so well.Curtis Waters continues to be asked how and why Stunnin’ achieved such success, but he finds it challenging to answer the question, given that he, himself, did not particularly like the song.“I made this song secretly inside a locked room so that nobody could hear such a stupid song. Despite the song sounding stupid I uploaded it without any reason during lockdown.”Waters believes that the song’s popularity was influenced by the right timing. During the lockdown, when people were feeling down and confined to their homes all day, they came across a fun song. The timing coincided with the rising popularity of TikTok, and many people created TikTok videos using the song, which further contributed to its success.“I do think luck also played a role. If I had released it now I do not think it would have done so well,” he says.Since then, many things have changed in Curtis Waters’ musical career, with the most significant transformation evident in his song-making process. He acknowledges going through various phases, including times when he pursued commercial success and attempted to create a song like Stunnin’. However, his approach has evolved, and he no longer prioritises chasing commercial hits, opting for a different musical direction.“At this moment I’ve found more fulfilment ignoring external validation and making art that feels authentic to me,” says Waters.Following the release of his debut album Pity Party in 2020, Curtis Waters has now launched a new album titled The Bad Son.Waters describes Bad Son as an album that resonates with his personal journey, symbolising his journey from Nepal to Canada at the age of 10, a move he made with his family. Through his new album, Curtis Waters seeks to make his younger self proud for the journey he undertook, moving to a new country from his native land, adapting to a unique culture, and bravely confronting racism along the way.“This album is like a movie. The songs included in the albums do not represent different genres but different scenes. In one song the singer is at a club and in another song he is somewhere else,” he says. The theme for this album was developed when he was 14 years old. But he was only able to execute it aged 23.Waters reveals that he has been an emotional person since childhood, and The Bad Son album contains elements reflecting this aspect of his personality. He fondly recalls spending time with his father, writing poems together as a way to distract himself and express the depth of his emotions. The album serves as a heartfelt expression of his inner world and experiences.“When I was a kid I used to feel lonely and depressed. To overcome those feelings, I occupied myself in creative activities,” he said.Despite gaining popularity through his music, Curtis Waters found it challenging to manage his newfound fame at the beginning. The pressures and demands that come with being in the public eye has been overwhelming and he says he is leaning to deal with it.“Initially it made me anxious and I found it difficult but now that it’s all settled down it’s not difficult at all,” says Waters. “I’m not famous enough for it to make a huge impact on my day-to-day life I still feel like the same person.”Instead of using the name given by his parents, Curtis Waters opted for a new name. The primary reason behind this decision was to connect and resonate with a broader foreign audience.When Waters moved to Canada, nobody would understand his name. That made it hard for him which is why in his teens he gave himself a new name which everyone could understand.“I also picked a Western name to be safe from racism. But these days I don’t like this name because it was the name I kept out of fear,” says Waters.With growing time he says he has begun understanding the importance of his real identity. That is why he wants to make songs for the Nepali audience too. But he does not feel comfortable doing so as his Nepali is not that great.“I left Nepal when I was 10. I speak Nepali like a 10-year-old. I do not have the confidence right now but I hope with time I can express myself in Nepali,” he said.In his effort to connect with his roots, Curtis Waters intends to visit Nepal and spend time in the country. He has a strong desire to immerse himself in the culture, learn the language, and use this experience as inspiration to write songs that resonate with his Nepali heritage.“I really want to do that. Hopefully, things will align for me to do that,” he said.Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal will be visiting China in September.Minister for Foreign Affairs, NP Saud said Dahal will be going to China in the third or the fourth week of September.“Preparations are in place for the prime minister to visit China,” said Saud.Dahal recently went to India and met his Indian counterpart, Narendra Modi.Speaker Devraj Ghimire is holding a discussion with top leaders of major political parties regarding the removal of obstruction at the House of Representatives.The discussion is scheduled to be held on Monday, said Ghimire’s secretariat.On Sunday, Speaker Ghimire engaged in discussions with the chief whips of major political parties regarding the matter. However, due to the unchanging stances of both the ruling and opposition parties on the 100 kg gold smuggling case, the meeting has been postponed to Monday.The Speaker has summoned a meeting with the senior leaders of the major political parties for Monday at noon, aiming to resolve the deadlock in the parliament, according to his secretariat.During the meeting on Sunday, the chief whips of the ruling parties expressed the view that there was no requirement to establish a high-level investigation committee for probing corruption cases, including the gold smuggling case. They asserted that the government agencies possessed sufficient capability to undertake necessary actions in this regard.The main opposition, the UML, has been obstructing both houses calling for the formation of a high-level investigation committee.Following that, Ghimire, on August 1, adjourned the house until August 7.This moral, ethical and legal minefield has always garnered controversy and has the potential to rock the very foundation of culture and prevalent society.Euthanasia has divided society and the country which have instituted functional systems or are in the process of introducing one have been very cautious and have introduced the term sensitively. The process has been ongoing with society members’ participation and the discussions have been open. Thus introduced processes have been all-encompassing, morally ethically and legally binding.Questions might arise about the need for such a process, this is centred on the right of individuals to a dignified, painless death. The debates on the civil rights of an individual have processed to euthanasia. Rapid development in medical investigations and therapeutics together with improvement in quality of life has increased life expectancy globally. This longevity is welcomed and enjoyed till one remains functional physically and mentally. When old age becomes more and more care dependent then one tends to lose the desire to live. The situation becomes worse when one is inflicted with life-threatening chronic diseases like cancers and incapacitating diseases like Alzheimer’s, multiple sclerosis, parkinsonism, last stages of COPD, and renal diseases where death is imminent albeit with prolonged suffering.So global consciousness was awakened to address the plight of these individuals, where advocates were questioning the rights of these individuals for painless death. The process was started long back with the choice for the addition of DNR in the chart of old patients, which implies do not resuscitate in the case when the heart stops beating. We as medical professionals have counselled family members about switching ventilators in brain-dead patients. These chronically incapacitated patients wanted the right to choose death at their chosen time.As these are responsible procedures legally and medically, binding criteria are set. Counselling and deliberation to arrive at a decision are given such that when such a decision is made all parties involved are accepted. This is not a hasty process and only a few countries like France, whose service has been functional and Australia which is to introduce it this year. This process is to start when patients argued about their rights and asked lawmakers and parliamentarians for a painless exit, when despite all medical interventions and therapeutics all they were waiting for was a painful, debilitating prolonged, uncertain wait for death. They wanted the last right as an individual for a dignified death, after finalising all their affairs and after proper goodbyes to their loved ones. The grieving families were also all accepting because planned death spared them to withstand their loved ones suffering and slowly fading away. This made the grieving process a bit bearable and a bit more easily.Nepal is in the time frame when Nepali society needs to be introduced to euthanasia. Such that healthy robust discussion is started, we as a society need to start thinking about how as a society we want to progress. Nepal like the rest of the world has an increasing elderly population and increasing prevalence of these incapacitating incurable chronic diseases. So we are bound to face a similar situation as West sooner or later.Introducing such a facility requires first creating awareness and grievance alleviation, which can be started presently.“He harvested different parts and we even ate its seeds. I remember him extracting ghee (clarified butter) from it. He was so adamant about conserving these trees,” says Chepang.As time passed, the family’s interest in the chiuri trees they once cherished dwindled, and sadly, these trees gradually disappeared. Alternately, Chepang developed a strong passion for beekeeping. However, there was a noticeable decline in honey harvest recently, leaving Chepang and others from the community baffled as they could not pinpoint the cause initially. Eventually, they realised that the decrease in honey production was directly linked to the decline in chiuri trees in the area.Now, the locals are getting back to their roots. Realising the importance of the trees they once did not have much regard for, residents in Silinge have taken proactive steps to incorporate cultivation plans for these trees into their activities. “Our focus is on establishing a sustainable ecosystem that facilitates planting, harvesting, and trading, creating better income opportunities for the community,” says Chepang who adds everyone in the area is now pivoting towards planting and preserving chuiri trees.“I now get why my grandfather was so adamant about saving these trees,” says Chepang.The chiuri trees grow somewhere between 20 to 25 metres in height and are usually seen growing in areas between 300 to 1,500 metres above sea level. In Nepal, it is commonly seen in Makawanpur, Chitwan, Dhading, Jajarkot, and Dadheldhura districts with several pockets richer in number. There have been four sub-species of the plant identified in the country. The species share a deep bond with the Chepang communities that reside in these areas too. “The community used to give chiuri trees as dowry to their daughters. But with the changing times, perspectives and the decreasing number of trees, the tradition has been irregular,” says Dinesh Chepang.The dowry tradition, he says, was set in place because of the many benefits of the chiuri or butter tree (Diploknema Butyracea). Bishnu Prasad Acharya, Divisional Forest Officer Rapti, has been an advocate to talk about chiuri and its importance to not just the Chepang community but to humankind. Acharya says that these trees have numerous benefits. “Its seeds are rich in oil content and are used to produce chiuri ghee. It is used for cooking, used as a lubricant or moisturiser, and can serve as a base for cosmetics due to its high protein and essential fatty acids content (about 55 per cent).”Acharya says the fruit produced from the tree is juicy and nutritious as well.There are lots of benefits. The seeds can be eaten as they are very nutritious, and they can be used to make other food items too even local alcoholic beverages not just humans, animals, birds and insects are also fond of this.“Bats and bees are particularly fond of its seed and nectar. While they are the best pollinator for the chiuri tree too,” says Acharya.But, in unparalleled events, where the community grew interested in beekeeping for honey, they had not connected the role of the bats in the ecosystem and were culturally and socially hunting down the bats, affecting the growth of the trees and the nocturnal animal. However, he says, they are disseminating information about the importance of bats too and encouraging them to protect their numbers too.Acharya says the leaves from these trees can be utilised to craft duna tapari (biodegradable baskets and plates) while the leftover parts can serve as fodder. Additionally, the wood obtained from these trees possesses strength and durability, making it a suitable material for crafting furniture, tools, and various other items.Going beyond the direct uses of these species, Dinesh Chepang explains, “It is known to give more oxygen so it is naturally beneficial and its roots and leaves have more nitrogen too, making it a great fertiliser too. And any leftovers can be fodder for the livestock.”The chiuri tree and its benefits have been deeply connected with the livelihood of the Chepang community. During the Panchayat era, the district administration had given the Chepang community responsibility to take care of the species too. But after the change in government, the change in mindset, the lack of ownership, the change in religion and the growing educational and economic opportunities shifted the priority.According to the Chepang community, there is many generation worth of knowledge linked to the species, including its uses, benefits and need for preservation. But it got lost somewhere.“Now, many individuals, as well as the local government, are making efforts to bring back that awareness and revive proactive efforts to plant and conserve the chiuri plants and forests for a better future.”Acharya sheds light on the opportunities and explains, “The priority shifted once, but now it is time to bring back the knowledge and be a part of the change. We are building awareness through school curriculum and local awareness programmes about the importance of chiuri trees and their conservation to bring back the glory.”Many from the Chepang and other local communities got attracted to other income opportunities, and to bring them back, Acharya says, they need equally viable and better opportunities.“We have been encouraging and advocating to the local and provincial government to make this a priority now. We have asked for the budget and programmes this fiscal year to bring about that very change,” says Acharya.The local government is looking at wards 6, 7, and 8 already.“But I am still pushing for the provincial government to take greater interest. And I am also working for a future where the sector gets a separate department to work on. We have estimated that if the programme gets some Rs 80 to Rs 100 million a year, with some 10 employees, in about just 10 years, we can see that,” says Acharya.But, he stresses, not just government-level interest, going back to the golden age will require conservation efforts and ownership from the locals too. “Efforts are being made to encourage the younger generation to engage in chiuri plantation and harvesting,” he says.Locals are also being explained how the plants could help generate income. This campaign, Acharya believes, will encourage the community to take responsibility.To accelerate the plantation, Acharya wants to highlight how important the species is for the ongoing global efforts against climate change. He claims that the chiuri trees would be the best option for the community to protect itself as well as contribute to the initiative given its climate adaptation prowess. “We do not have research to tell us if climate change has had an impact on the species in the area. But when we talk about climate adaptation, these trees are the best as they check all the boxes that benefit the community and the nation, in a rather shorter period. And that is what we are seeking too.”With the rapidly increasing temperature, he says that the tree’s shade coverage is also higher and gives out higher oxygen. “We can plant up to 120 chiuri saplings in 100 hectares (with a 10×10 coverage) or 600 (with a 6×6 coverage). And as it bears fruits rather fast, we can expect faster results as anticipated too.”Chiuri forests are also great to give shelter to a wide variety of wildlife and encourage biodiversity in the area, he hints.Other than that he adds, that the cascading effects can also be seen as, “In months where these trees do not give fruits, the community can engage in other fruits and vegetable farming, either in terraced/ layered form or in a cyclic nature.”The roots of the chiuri trees spread wide controlling soil erosion, and conserving groundwater levels, and they give out ample nitrogen for other plants to foster as well. And the locals can add other income opportunities as well.It can be further thought at a national level and very well be linked to ecotourism, green economy, and climate finance, he adds.This is not a solitary case as snakebites in Nepal are a medical emergency. According to a journal, an estimated 40,000 people get bitten by snakes annually and among them, little over 3,000 lose their lives. This is only in the 23 districts in the Tarai and does not include cases that are not reported. And the number is rising every year says Hemant Ojha, head of the Zoonotic Department of Epidemiology and Disease Control Division. Most of the people who get bit go to the 88 snakebite treatment centre located in 31 districts across Nepal. Apart from that, there are a few government hospitals that treat snakebites too. The Ministry of Health and Population has been purchasing about 2,000 vials of ‘Antisnake Venom’ from India annually and providing it free of cost for snakebite treatment centres and government hospitals.Despite that, there are a lot of issues as organisations involved are facing a shortage of sufficient anti-snake venom. Additionally, there exists a deficiency in both human resources and infrastructure. The cost of treatment poses a challenge too, particularly for marginalised individuals. Consequently, these individuals are left with the grim choice of either succumbing to the snakebite at home or resorting to seeking treatment from a shaman due to the lack of viable medical options.According to Krishna Acharya, a senior consultant and anesthesiologist at Bheri Hospital, the time it takes for the venom to disperse within humans varies from 30 minutes to as long as 12 hours, contingent on the specific species of the venomous snake.Noteworthy symptoms include stomach ache, vomiting, and respiratory distress. Individuals exhibiting these symptoms should be promptly transported to a medical facility or a specialised snakebite treatment centre for immediate care.Acharya says that if the patient is taken to the hospital within an hour of being bitten by a snake, there is a 90 per cent chance that the patient can be saved. But in Nepal, there is a different practice. Most people in rural Nepal go to a shaman instead of a hospital. People only visit a hospital once the situation is critical as a result snakebite deaths are on the rise.According to the snakebite expert Chhabi Lal Thapa, people are still not well aware of the treatment of snakebites. He informs that in Nawalparasi except for Kali Gandaki Hospital, no private hospital, clinic or college provides treatment for snakebites.Due to the lack of treatment facilities for snakebites in district hospitals, patients of Pyuthan, Dang, Bardiya, and Kailali have to go to Bheri Hospital, travelling for hours. As time is critical when one gets bitten by a snake, they die as they do not get adequate care on time.A similar incident occurred in Pyuthan on June 20. Abhishek Nepali was swiftly taken to Bijurwa District Hospital merely ten minutes after being bitten by a snake. The hospital had both a doctor and a supply of anti-snake venom. Regrettably, the doctor on duty lacked the expertise to administer proper treatment for a snakebite victim. Consequently, the doctor advised Nepali to seek assistance at the district hospital in Dang. But Nepali’s condition deteriorated during the journey, resulting in his death due to the rapid dissemination of the venom throughout his body. Had a proficient doctor been available at the initial hospital, Nepali’s life might have been saved.Although the government provides anti-snake venom for free, the cost of medicine, oxygen, ICU, ventilator and dialysis needs to be paid by the patient. “It cost over Rs 100,000 for the treatment of snakebite,” says Acharya. He further says that Nepal’s policymakers are unaware that snakebite is a health issue for the poor.  “The government has remained indifferent about the pain and suffering that the poor people have to go through due to the snakebite.” According to Acharya, snakebite is a huge health problem in the country but the ministry, political parties and media have not given it much attention.The statistics of the Ministry of Health and Population show that in the fiscal year 2021/22, 926 patients with snakebites reached the hospital for treatment spending around Rs 100,000 on average. This is a huge amount for a family who even struggles to fulfil their basic needs. Hemlal Acharya from Dullu, Dailekh, who travelled to Nepalgunj to seek medical care for his son following a snakebite, said, “In situations where medical resources are not readily available and individuals have to bear the expenses themselves, the treatment costs can range from Rs 500,000 to Rs 700,000.”Madhav Acharya, a resident of Dullu in Dailekh, had to spend a night at his relative’s residence during his journey to India for employment. There he was bitten by a Krait snake while sleeping there. He underwent a 17-day treatment period at both Kohalpur Medical College and Bheri Hospital. His condition was critical, leading to a seven-day stay in the intensive care unit (ICU) and another 10 days on a ventilator. Despite the fact that the expenses for the hospital bed and medications were covered by Bheri Hospital, Madhav incurred a total treatment cost of Rs 250,000.According to public health expert Jeevan Chettri, the government’s focus on the health sector is notably lacking. In such circumstances, matters concerning snakebites are unlikely to receive any form of priority or attention.Chettri says that poor people who are at risk of snakebites have to go through a lot of economic difficulties. They are unable to put forward their problems to policymakers. Due to this, policymakers are not sensitive to the financial problems caused by snakebites. But Ojha, who is also a focal person of the Ministry of Health and Population contradicts Chettri says that the government has been providing free anti-snake venom and training to health workers. Likewise, it is also conducting a public awareness programme in collaboration with the Red Cross Society and Rotary Club. “The government is doing various things to address the problem of snakebite,” says Ojha. “They might be inadequate but it is wrong to say that the  government does not care about the snakebite issue.” However, Chettri says although the government defends itself, even today, poor citizens who have been bitten by snakes are forced to go to a shaman instead of going to the hospital. This condition needs to be studied specifically. Chettri further says that if the government manages a free treatment of snakebites, the number of people losing their life by going to shamans will decrease. “In areas with a high risk of snakebites, the government can assist by offering free insurance to the residents,” says Chettri, “Individuals with health insurance should receive free treatment for snakebites. If the insurance covers all the expenses, the death due to snakebites will decrease and the financial burden of the family members will also be reduced.”Menuka Shahi, nursing officer and focal person of Bheri Hospital says that most of the expenses, including medicine, bed charge and ventilator, of snakebite patients are covered by the health insurance. But the majority of snakebite patients do not have health insurance. Due to the absence of health insurance, they go through a lot to manage fees for the treatment. Experts say that there is a dearth of awareness about snakebite in a place where there is a high risk of it. According to experts, menstruating and pregnant women are more prone to snakebites. Because of the belief that menstruating women should not sleep indoors or on a bed, they are compelled to sleep outside in places like the yard, cattle shed, and even makeshift huts. This harmful practice exposes women to an increased risk of snakebites.In the second week, 15-year-old Hemanti Joshi of Sukhad, Kailali was menstruating and sleeping on the veranda. She was taken to Seti Hospital where she breathed her last.Another pressing issue is the delayed availability of ambulances for patients. Even when ambulances are accessible, individuals often lack information about the hospitals equipped to provide snakebite treatment. This lack of awareness further complicates the situation.A study conducted in 2019 and 2020 by BP Koirala Institute of Health Sciences and experts has shown that 40 per cent of deaths due to snakebites occur in villages. The other 40 per cent die on the way and around 20 per cent die amid the treatment. In 2014, Jhalnath Khanal Institute of Health Sciences was formed to produce anti-snake venom (ASV) in Nepal. Under the initiative of former prime minister Jhalnath Khanal, the foundation also received a grant of around Rs 190 million from the federal government and the Madhesh province government.After receiving the grant money, the foundation purchased about 6.25 acres of land in Lalbandi municipality-1 by spending Rs 700 million. In 2020 the government allotted  Rs 720 million for the foundation but due to the change in the government, they did not receive the grant. The government’s decision to provide the grant for the foundation even received flak from netizens. To overcome the criticism and risk of not getting grants from international donors, the foundation was changed to the National Health Science and Research Council. “The construction of a farmhouse for snake breeding, a laboratory, a one-hundred-bed capacity hospital and an administration building has been stopped due to the suspension of grants for two years,” says Revati Pant, president of the foundation. In point number 71 of the budget statement announced by the Madhesh province government on June 16, it is mentioned that the budget will be arranged in a phased manner for the construction of necessary infrastructure after studying the feasibility of anti-snake venom production. According to Ojha of the Epidemiology and Disease Control Division, Nepal imports 20,000 vials of antisnake venom annually and is sent to snakebite treatment centres and hospitals across the country.“The anti-snake venom imported from India for treating snakebite patients is not as effective as it is in India,” says Sanjeev Kumar Shah, snakebite expert and acting vice-chancellor at BP Koirala Institute of Health Sciences. “Anti-snake venom made from raw material extracted from snakes found in India can pose a risk of reaction when given to patients bitten by snakes in Nepal.” He adds that it would be great if anti-snake venom could be produced in Nepal. Zoologist Kamal Devkota says that except for providing anti-snake venom and three-day-long training to the health workers, the government has not done anything more.  According to Devkota, alongside the government, the donor agencies have also not prioritised the problem of snakebite. He questions, “Why is this problem, not a priority for both the government and donor agencies?”This story was translated from the original Nepali version and edited for clarity and length.Simit Yaad is a multifaceted EP that artfully weaves together an array of emotions. From soulful melodies to heartwarming romantic tunes and beyond, it effortlessly encompasses a diverse range of vibes, ensuring an enchanting musical journey for every listener.Simit Yaad casts a spell with its emotive vocals and bold production. It is like each track becomes a portal to explore diverse facets of the human experience, taking listeners on a reflective journey that intimately connects them with the artist’s distinctive and thought-provoking perspective.The five-track EP kicks off with the title track Simit Yaad. It is an upbeat love song that explores the impact of finite memories of past lovers on present relationships. The poetic lyrics, haunting vocals and ghostly melody create a dreamlike atmosphere. One could say through this song, the band has tried to experiment with sonics.Najar is another love song that delves into the yearning to be with one’s lover, longing to see them, touch them, and feel their presence. The track’s reverberant beat, produced by Aman Karna, perfectly captures the singer’s emotions, enhancing the essence of the song. The lyrics, written by Abhishekh Pokhrel, resonate with the beat, making it a delightful and immersive listening experience. As a music lover, I would love to hear an acoustic version of this song as it takes me back to the old days when pop songs thrived in Nepal.From two love songs, the EP takes on a different route as Ma talks about personal feelings and the road to self-discovery, a theme rarely explored in Nepali music. Over the years, the band has consistently pushed boundaries, setting themselves apart in their pursuit of innovation by delving into topics like this.The song begins with a gentle and tender opening, featuring a simple guitar intro and transitions dynamically changing its rhythm and gradually increasing in intensity, adding a delightful variation that enhances the overall charm of the track.Phosphenes have become renowned for their experimental flair, and this EP effortlessly embodies their unique musical style. In Simit Yaad too, the band blended the elements of indie and EDM in each song, resulting in a harmonious fusion of styles.Their attention to detail shines through in their melodious guitar solos and basslines, adding depth and richness to the compositions. Yes, the EP boasts impressive composition, lyrics, and arrangements, but it is worth noting that the mixing and mastering are equally outstanding. Diwas Gurung, who co-produced the EP with the band, deserves a special mention for his exceptional work in achieving a flawless balance. Through his skillful mixing and mastering, all instruments shine clearly, harmoniously complementing each other, and enhancing the overall listening experience. It is evident that Gurung understands the band having been part of their journey from the very beginning.An example of that is the fourth track Drishya as it leaves a lasting impression on listeners with its captivating guitar and bass parts, setting it apart as a standout track. Lyrically, the song talks about breaking free but its soothing and hypnotic beats take you on a journey. It is safe to say, the music flawlessly captures the emotions of anxiety and the struggle to come to terms with reality.The final track of the album, Antya, brings a pleasant surprise as it showcases the vocal talents of bassist Nirita Yakthumba, instead of the regular vocalist Prajwal Aryal or Abhishekh Pokhrel. Her poignant vocals narrate the story of someone who remains hopeful despite feeling hopeless. The emotional impact of the song is intensified by Yakthumba’s vocal range, which seamlessly transitions from low to high, perfectly complementing the touching lyrics, which she wrote herself. It is another song that calls for self-reflection and contemplation.The song’s arrangement, featuring gentle guitar plucking, subtle synth effects, and soft drum beats in the background, creates a soothing and calming atmosphere that perfectly complements the overall tone and emotion of the track.What sets this EP apart from the band’s other projects is the inclusion of solely Nepali songs. Simit Yaad contains only Nepali songs, veering from their previous projects that also included English songs. This exclusive focus on Nepali lyrics adds a unique and authentic touch to the EP, showcasing Phosphenes’ versatility in exploring diverse musical avenues.To sum things up, Simit Yaad stands as an authentic collection of songs that brilliantly encapsulate the spirit of indie music. Each track exudes a distinct and original sound, showcasing the band’s remarkable creativity. The music that can be heard in Simit Yaad is rarely heard in the Nepali music scene.By the EP here.All photos: PhosphenesPassengers eagerly wait at designated stops, bracing themselves for the battle of finding a seat or even a comfortable standing spot. Amidst the chaotic scenes, it becomes evident that the existing public transportation system is strained beyond its capacity.If you live in Nepal, it is highly probable that you have encountered challenges while travelling in public vehicles, especially on the roads of Kathmandu.The morning and evening hours are notorious for being the busiest and most crowded for buses. The situation becomes more concerning as, despite the people’s safety and capacity limits of the vehicles, conductors often command passengers to shift and accommodate additional people inside. This practice leaves no proper space for standing, leading to overcrowding conditions within the vehicle. Consequently, conflicts and arguments frequently arise between conductors and passengers, further exacerbating the unsafe and unfriendly environment.Moreover, it poses a significant risk to the safety and well-being of passengers. The tightly packed space increases the risk of suffocation, physical harm, and even incidents of theft or robbery. Many individuals have experienced the unfortunate loss of their phones while travelling on buses. These conditions create an environment that compromises the security and comfort of passengers.Additionally, this unmanaged and overcrowded state of public transportation has been identified as one of the main contributors to the rapid spread of Covid 19 in Nepal in recent years. The close proximity among passengers, lack of ventilation, and the difficulty of maintaining physical distancing all contribute to the increased transmission of the virus within these settings. This highlights the urgent need for improved crowd management and adherence to safety protocols in public vehicles.The unmanaged and unmaintained condition of roads has created a significant safety concern for passengers. The poor state of many roads, particularly in remote areas, poses risks to travellers.Due to inadequate maintenance, many roads suffer from potholes and uneven surfaces. The improper tarmacking of roads contributes to an increase in pollution levels, causing breathing problems for the people around. These road conditions can cause discomfort to passengers, but more importantly, they increase the risk of accidents.Moreover, the number of public vehicles is insufficient compared to the demand from the population. As a result, people often have to endure long waiting times to catch a bus. The scarcity of buses not only causes delays in reaching workplaces and schools but also exacerbates the issue of overcrowding when buses finally arrive due to the high number of people waiting.Many have witnessed people not properly following the laws of public vehicle seats. The lack of adherence to proper seating laws by some citizens remains a concerning issue. Despite the clear designation of seats for women at the top of buses, it is disheartening to witness men occupying these seats, disregarding the established rules and showing a lack of respect for women’s rights in these designated spaces.It is important for individuals to show empathy and respect towards those in need and offer a seat, particularly to individuals with younger children and the elderly. By doing so, they demonstrate consideration for the well-being and dignity of fellow passengers who may require seating for reasons of safety, comfort, or mobility.Promoting awareness campaigns that emphasize the importance of following seating regulations, respecting designated spaces for women, and encouraging acts of courtesy towards those who require priority seating can contribute to a more inclusive and considerate public transportation system. Additionally, transportation policies and authorities can play an active role by inspecting regular checks and enforcing these regulations and providing training to bus conductors and staff on promoting and maintaining a safe and respectful atmosphere within public vehicles.The situation demands attention as the virus is spreading rapidly across the country. Eastern Nepal has been hit by it most as the Dharan sub-metropolis was forced to shut down schools to fight the dengue outbreak.While the post-monsoon period has historically been considered the peak season for dengue transmissions, the virus has now entrenched itself, leading to outbreaks throughout the year. This calls for collective action from all citizens to confront and cope with this menacing threat.Dengue is not a new adversary for Nepal; it has wreaked havoc in previous years. In 2022, the country witnessed 88 deaths and over 54,000 infections, with the virus spreading to all 77 districts. Hospitals in the Kathmandu valley were inundated with dengue patients, and basic medicines like paracetamol were in short supply. The alarming death rate from dengue emphasises the urgent need to address the factors that contribute to its deadly impact. Experts cite several reasons for the high death toll, including negligence in case management, delayed adoption of preventive measures, lack of public awareness, and delayed healthcare seeking after infection. The presence of multiple dengue virus serotypes further complicates the situation. To mitigate the impact of dengue outbreaks, a comprehensive strategy must be implemented, addressing these root causes head-on.The responsibility to identify and eliminate mosquito breeding sites rests with all of us. By regularly inspecting and cleaning our surroundings, we can break the transmission chain and protect our families and neighbours.Public awareness plays a pivotal role in our fight against dengue. We must educate ourselves and our communities about dengue symptoms, transmission, and preventive measures. Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus, the mosquitoes responsible for dengue transmission, breed in clean water and bite during day time. Simple measures, such as covering water tanks and properly disposing of plastic containers, can significantly reduce the risk of dengue transmission.Timely detection and access to appropriate medical care are crucial in reducing fatalities. Although there is no specific cure for dengue, early identification of the disease can make a substantial difference in patient outcomes. Healthcare facilities must be equipped to handle potential outbreaks, with a steady supply of essential medications and trained medical professionals to identify and treat dengue promptly. Beyond dengue, our efforts must encompass a holistic approach to address the broader challenge of vector-borne diseases. The same mosquitoes responsible for dengue transmission also carry other life-threatening diseases such as chikungunya, yellow fever, and Zika. Integrated vector management strategies must be adopted to tackle these health threats simultaneously.To combat dengue outbreaks effectively, entomologists stress the importance of sustainable solutions for mosquito control. Proper waste management and regular mosquito breeding site inspections are essential components of these solutions.Embracing sustainable practices will not only combat dengue but also contribute to overall public health and environmental well-being. This battle against dengue requires a united front, with the government and citizens working together. While the government must take the lead in implementing preventive measures and providing healthcare support, citizens must actively participate and support these initiatives. Collaboration, backed by financial and logistical support, is the key to success in combatting this deadly disease.In the face of the looming dengue outbreak and the monsoon’s unpredictable nature, we stand at a crossroads – a choice between complacency and collective action. Let us not wait for tragedy to strike our doorsteps before we act. The time to unite is now, to forge an unbreakable shield against dengue’s deadly advance. Together, we possess the strength to defy this annual scourge, protect our loved ones, and ensure that no life is lost in vain.On this International Youth Day, as we focus on the theme of — Green Skills for Youth: Towards a Sustainable World — it becomes crucial to closely examine the true inclusivity of this movement, particularly from the perspective of youth with disabilities.Do these noble ideals of inclusivity and transformation translate into concrete actions? Are youth movements wholeheartedly embracing the participation of individuals with disabilities, or is their inclusion merely symbolic? These are the pressing questions demanding answers to authentically uncover the vast potential of the progressive youth movement.Amidst the progressive youth movement lies a disheartening truth – individuals with disabilities often find themselves marginalised even within this very movement. It is a perplexing paradox that while youth organisations strive for a more equitable world, they inadvertently cast persons with disabilities as mere symbols of inclusivity, neglecting to acknowledge their profound and meaningful contributions. This unfortunate tendency further ingrains the misconception that disabilities should be put on display, rather than being valued for the unparalleled viewpoints and skills they bring to the table. This leads us to a pivotal question that demands contemplation: are these organisations sincerely contemplating individuals with disabilities for roles of leadership, or are they simply plugging gaps to create a façade of inclusiveness? As we ardently pursue the ideals of an inclusive youth movement, it becomes imperative to meticulously evaluate whether persons with disabilities are being entrusted with substantive leadership responsibilities, transcending the boundaries of mere membership.Can we witness them taking charge in the leadership position of youth councils, actively and influentially engaging in the intricate realms of advocacy and decision-making?In the name of fostering true inclusion, the persistent issue of tokenism looms large, casting a shadow over well-intentioned efforts. While individuals with disabilities are occasionally granted visibility and invited to participate in rallies and public gatherings orchestrated by various organisations, the stark reality often remains obscured: their involvement in shaping policies and strategies remains limited. To embody the essence of inclusion, a mere presence is insufficient; it must penetrate the very core of decision-making processes.Delving deeper into the organisational landscape, it is crucial to scrutinise whether critical discussions on human resources, gender equality, disability, and social inclusion have not only found a place in youth organisations’ policies but have become integral to their ethos. The urgency of this inquiry cannot be overstated. Do these discussions transcend mere lip service, becoming proactive considerations deeply ingrained in the organisational fabric?The present state of affairs underscores a striking contrast between the surface-level token representation and the authentic realisation of inclusivity. Symbolic gestures, while visually impactful, fail to replace the profound influence of genuine involvement. The call for transformation resounds loudly – a transformation that goes beyond the superficial and orchestrates a comprehensive shift. It is our responsibility to cultivate an environment where the voices of individuals with disabilities resonate powerfully and substantively.Amidst the grand proclamations and global declarations made by esteemed international bodies and youth councils, such as the United Nations Youth Council and Youth Committee, a pivotal question emerges: how effectively have we, as youth organisations and movements, translated these commitments into actions that hold significance at the grassroots level? While we proudly espouse the narrative of inclusivity, introspection becomes imperative – we must assess the concrete impact we wield in creating leadership opportunities for individuals with disabilities within our local spheres.Are these commitments fleeting expressions, or do they resonate genuinely through the actions we undertake? The authenticity of our dedication to inclusivity finds its litmus test in the tangible representation of persons with disabilities in positions of influence. Do our actions align with our rhetoric? Are we providing equal avenues for these individuals not only to participate but also to spearhead initiatives that shape inclusive and transformative platforms on a global scale? This introspection prompts us to evaluate the true depth of representation and involvement within our organisations.Progress, undeniably, has left its mark on the canvas of inclusivity. Yet, progress alone falls short of our aspirations. It beckons us to venture further, traversing a landscape where inclusivity transcends mere rhetoric and becomes an intrinsic facet of the youth movement’s identity. The allocation of resources by numerous national and international agencies, earmarked for marginalised segments including those with disabilities, represents a commendable stride toward equity. However, we must delve deeper, questioning whether these gestures truly align with the nuanced needs and multifaceted challenges that define the experiences of this community.Amid pressing concerns related to exclusion, it becomes imperative for us to not only acknowledge but also actively champion instances of authentic inclusivity. A vivid embodiment of this ideal can be witnessed in the remarkable journey of individuals like Kaladhar Bhandari. His exceptional leadership as the Chairperson of the Blind Youth Association Nepal seamlessly intertwines with his role as an executive member of the National Youth Council. However, this narrative extends beyond the individual level. Anita Dhungana, a former executive member of the National Youth Council, and Sarita Lamichhane, renowned for founding Prayatna Nepal, have also left indelible marks while occupying esteemed positions. Notably, Sarita Lamichhane served as a former executive member of the Association of Youth Organizations Nepal (AYON). These exceptional exemplars serve as beacons of hope, underscoring the tangible potential of cultivating inclusive leadership.Nevertheless, the enduring impact and significance of such practices necessitate thoughtful contemplation. We must critically assess whether these appointments of individuals with disabilities are mere superficial gestures or truly integral components of a broader, genuine endeavour aimed at nurturing inclusivity at all levels. Genuine transformation demands an unwavering commitment to consistently and enduringly integrate individuals with disabilities into decision-making and authoritative roles. Superficial gestures of inclusiveness fall short; it is the sustained and authentic representation of persons with disabilities that infuses vitality into a truly comprehensive youth movement. The authenticity of intent should be reflected through actions that go beyond symbolism, thereby fortifying the foundation of an inclusive society. By doing so, we reaffirm our dedication to dismantling barriers, challenging stereotypes, and shaping a world where diversity is not merely acknowledged but fervently embraced.In conclusion, as we celebrate International Youth Day, it is crucial to acknowledge the significant yet often overlooked role of youth with disabilities in shaping our future. Despite the noble ideals of inclusivity and transformation within the youth movement, we must confront the disheartening truth of marginalisation and tokenism faced by individuals with disabilities. True inclusivity demands more than symbolic gestures; it necessitates substantive participation and genuine representation at all levels of decision-making and leadership. The transformative potential of the youth movement lies in the strong commitment to dismantle barriers and embrace diversity wholeheartedly. Let us fortify the foundation of an inclusive society, one where the voices and talents of individuals with disabilities resonate powerfully and where actions reflect the authenticity of our intent. Only then can we earnestly pave the way towards a sustainable world, harnessed by the collective strength of all youth, regardless of ability?However, there have been a fair few Nepali books that have been translated into English as well. These books have helped international readers to know about Nepal, its culture, tradition, politics and others.  If you are someone who wants to read about Nepal but do not have a good grasp of the English language, these 10 books are perfect for you.Authored by Narayan Wagle, Palpasa Café revolves around the story of an artist, Drishya, amidst the Nepali Civil War. This Nepali novel is partly a love story of Drishya and Palpasa, who has returned to the land of her parents after the terrorist attack in the USA on September 11, 2001. The novel is often known as an anti-war novel and exhibits the effects of the civil war on the Nepali countryside that Drishya travels to. Palpasa Cafe is translated into English by Bikash Sangraula. Karnali Blues, written by Buddhi Sagar expresses the struggle of a lower middle-class father in the Far Western Region of Nepal from his son’s lenses. This Nepali novel has a  great presentation as it can move the readers along with the characters in the story.The novel predominantly unfolds through flashbacks, beautifully portraying the evolving perception of the son towards his father. The English translation of the book by Michael Hutt was launched in 2021.   Blue Mimosa is a Nepali book translated from Parijat’s magnum opus Shirish Ko Phool. Shirish Ko Phool depicts the story of a middle-aged man, Suyog Bir Singh who is going through a midlife crisis, also a former World War soldier. He is captivated by Sakambari, a rebellious personality who does not adhere to the conventional norms of how a woman should act or dress.     The book delves into the theme of an empty and meaningless life and an unhealthy obsession with a woman. The Prison is translated by Ann Hunkins from the book Karagar, authored by Banika Giri. The book portrays the story of a female protagonist who is at marriageable age, but due to her brother’s greed for property, her marriage gets delayed, which she discovers later.  Afterwards, she starts feeling lonely and isolated and poses a desire to break the lonely prison of isolation.Shramatan: A Nepalese Migrant Worker’s Memoir by Nepali author BN Joshi is translated into English by Arun Budhathoki. Shramatan is a harrowing ride that millions of Nepalis take every day, a tale of ‘coffin ships’ that take them away from their humble hillside homes to a hostile world of uncertainty and misery.This book is a flashback of the author’s life. The author, BN Joshi, says that he was inspired to write the book after experiencing the harsh realities of foreign jobs in various countries.Song of the Soil is a translated version of Fatsung, written by Chuden Kabimo. This Nepali book was translated by Ajit Baral.  Song of the Soil takes readers to the foothill town of Kalimpong in the Himalayas. The book tells the story of the revolution for a separate state of Gorkhaland in the late 1980s, exposing the faces of violence that occurred during the politically charged Gorkha movement. There’s a Carnival Today is another must-read Nepali book which has been translated by Manjushree Thapa. The Nepali version of the book is written by Indra Bahadur Rai and is called Aja Ramita Cha.The novel is set in the socio-cultural milieu of Darjeeling around the characters Janak Man Yonzan and Sita Shrestha. In the story, Shrestha hails from Dhankuta and is studying in Darjeeling. Janak Man Yonzan returns to Darjeeling from his study in Calcutta. They marry and settle down in Darjeeling. Most of the characters featured in the novel are Nepali-speaking individuals. They follow the culture and religion close to those of some hilly parts of Nepal. The novel explores changing political dynamics of Darjeeling within the context of pre- and post-independence India.The Wake of the White Tiger is translated from Seto Bagh, written by Diamond Shumsher Rana. Greta Rana has translated the book into English.The book portrays the life of Jagat Jung Rana, the eldest son of Jung Bahadur Rana. The book takes the readers to the time when Jung Bahadur Rana was in power and after his demise.Radha was originally written by Krishna Dharabasi and later was translated into English by Mahesh Paudyal. Radha is a winner of a Madan Puraskar, one of the biggest literary awards in Nepal. The novel is an adaptation of the ancient Sanskrit epic Mahabharat, with a heightened focus on the character of Radha.The Nepal Nexus is a translation of  Prayogshala, authored by Sudheer Sharma. The book is translated by Sanjaya Dhakal for Penguin India. The book is a vivid account of Nepal’s political insights related to Nepal’s 10-year conflict, the 2006 people’s movement, the fragile transition that followed, to the Maoists’ subsequent rise to power. The Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal has grounded all Simrik Air helicopters.Gyanendra Bhul, the information officer of the authority, stated that a financial audit carried out by CAAN’s team revealed an unsteady financial situation at Simrik Air. He said their service was also suspended due to a failure to pay the owed amount of Rs 4.6 million to the authority, despite multiple reminders.“We do not think it is safe to allow them to operate when it is uncertain if the airline can pay its staff. We have barred all four helicopters from flying,” said Bhul.CAAN said it will only allow the airlines to operate after it provides assurance it can pay its staff and operate sustainably along with paying what it owes CAAN.According to the Bhul, Simrik Air owes Tribhuvan International Airport Rs Rs 2.79 million, Lukla Airport Rs 1.57 million, Tapejung Airport Rs 437,000 and Simikot Airport Rs 158,000.Birendra Mahato raised the issue in a recent podcast interview, where he said he’d received offers from U.S. and Japanese hunters who wanted to pay millions of dollars to kill a tiger in Nepal. The country represents a rare conservation success story for the big cat, Panthera tigris, whose population here has tripled over the past 12 years.“They told me that we could go into global bidding, and allow the highest bidder to hunt tigers for a month every four to five years,” Mahato said.He pointed out that Nepal would soon face the problem of having too many tigers for its limited space and resources, which could lead to increased conflicts with humans and lack of food for the animals. The money raised from selling hunting could be used for conservation work, he added.“We could charge USD 25 million for every tiger killed,” he said. At that price, the cost of killing five tigers would easily cover the environment ministry’s total budget for the 2023/24 fiscal year.But Mahato’s suggestion and justifications have come under scathing criticism from conservationists, experts and local communities. They say “sport hunting” would be a disastrous move that would jeopardise Nepal’s remarkable achievement in tiger conservation and pose serious ecological and cultural risks.“Hunting just doesn’t work to reduce conflict,” says Mark Elbroch, director of the puma program at global wildcat conservation NGO Panthera.Elbroch led a recently published study proposing five hypotheses for why killing carnivores such as tigers might not just fail to stop their predation of livestock, but could even exacerbate the problem.The study suggests that killing tigers may have unintended consequences such as increasing local tiger density, attracting new or neighbouring tigers who may be less wary about preying on livestock, disrupting the predator-prey balance, causing prey species to change their behaviour and distribution, and creating a false sense of security among people.“When hunters are given guns, and allowed to kill, they can kill any tiger in the habitat,” Elbroch said. “That tiger could have a specific role in the population and its death could have negative impacts on the entire population.”There may be certain traits, such as skin colour, size or even shape that the hunters might prefer, and it’s possible that if they only target such tigers, it could lead to a loss in these traits in the population, conservationists say.Neil Carter, an associate professor of environment at the University of Michigan, who recently studied social networks among tigers in Nepal’s Chitwan National Park using long-term camera trap data, said tigers of different sexes and ages have important roles to play in the social network. That means the loss of individuals central to the network could create disproportionate disruptions to the population.For example, resident adult male tigers play an important role in maintaining the network. They connect different clusters of tigers together as they travel long distances to mate with multiple females. They also protect their territory from other males who might try to mate with their females or kill their cubs. Adult female tigers also have an important role in the network. If they live in a certain area for a long time, they’re more likely to connect to the wider network. They can also pass on their territory to their offspring, which is an advantage for their survival.Another study shows that even the death of one or two tigers, especially females, could trigger a massive decline in the overall population. Female tigers not only give birth to young ones, but also nurture and protect them until they’re capable of living on their own.In the case of cubs, only around 50 per cent survive to the age of dispersal, said Bhim Gurung, a co-author of the study on social networks among tigers.“If the main male tiger dies, the survival rate goes down further as the new male tries to kill all cubs born from the previous male,” says Gurung, from the Nepal Tiger Trust. The survivability of the cubs has important, long-term implications for the viability of the tiger population, Gurung added.In addition to these potential ecological repercussions, hunting of tigers raises important cultural issues for members of local Indigenous communities, especially the Tharu people living around Chitwan.“The indigenous communities living in areas that now fall under the national park were displaced so that the tigers could be saved,” said Birendra Mahato (not related to the environment minister), president of the Tharu Cultural Museum in Chitwan. “The communities have made a lot of sacrifices for Nepal to achieve the goal of doubling its tiger population.”He added that tigers are part of their religious lives and they worship them: “It’s beyond imagination that they would allow anyone to come in with a gun and kill them regardless of the money they offer.”Nepal faces a dilemma of coexisting with tigers, as the big cats’ population has grown from 121 in 2010 to 355 in 2023, thanks to intensive conservation efforts. At the same time, the country’s human population has also expanded in the southern plains, where most tigers live, thanks to a successful malaria eradication program in the 20th century. This has led to more cases of human-tiger conflict, as tigers and humans compete for the same space and resources.Elbroch said he believes that “problem” tigers that attack and kill people should be removed, but only after confirming their identity through genetic tests.Short of such definitive tests, “we need to rely on visible traits, and sometimes we even catch the wrong tiger,” says a former veterinary technician, who asked to remain anonymous. “If we allow hunters to kill the problem tigers, they would be the last people to be able to identify them.”Carter said “problem” tigers are unlikely to be part of the social network, and may have come into conflict with humans because of this. But he also said some of these tigers may play central roles in the network and their removal could have disproportionate impacts on the population structure.Then there’s a question of securing enough food and habitat for the growing population of tigers. However, researchers say there’s a limit to the population growth, and it may have already been reached in Chitwan. A recent study suggests that the ecological carrying capacity for tigers may have essentially been reached in Chitwan due to the limited availability of prey populations in the area.The authors note that prey densities estimated across the plains and hills of the Chitwan-Parsa site can support 177 adult tigers. The 2022 census indicates that the population there has already reached 155. The authors note that given the numbers, only small gains in population may be achieved in the future.“The population will not continue increasing forever,” Elbroch said. “Limiting factors such as availability of prey and various climatic factors will come into play.“But hunting is a terrible idea,” he added. “It’s a fly in the face of the collaborative efforts to save these wonderful animals.”This story first appeared on Mongabay and Onlinekhabar is republishing it under a Creative Commons licence.