Around 2.5 million people have travelled via Tribhuvan International Airport (TIA) in the first seven months of 2023.According to the TIA, 2,512,810 people travelled through Nepal’s busiest international airport in between January and July.TIA said 1,368,337 flew out from Nepal while 1,144,473 flew into Nepal in the past seven months.TIA said the airport saw 17,625 flights in the first seven months of 2023.During this period, 13,053 tons of cargo have been transported by air. It said 6,412 tons of goods have gone abroad.Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) recorded a profit of Rs 12.33 billion in fiscal year 2022/23.Managing Director of NEA, Kulman Ghising said the authority’s profit had slightly gone down compared to the fiscal year 2021/22.NEA has made profits of Rs 13.37 billion in fiscal year 2021/22.Ghising said the profits had decreased due to a decrease in water flow in rivers during the lean season and an increase in demand in Nepal due to which the NEA had to import electricity to sustain demand.Ghising said the authority’s earnings through electricity sales reached Rs 118 billion in fiscal year 2022/23 compared to Rs 81 billion in 2021/22.He also announced the authority is planning to issue shares to the public.In the last fiscal year, Nepal exported goods worth Rs 157 billion. If Nepal had exported at its full capacity, the total export could have been Rs 1.384 trillion. The World Bank has made this calculation based on the gravity model of international trade, considering the size of Nepal’s economy, geographical location and level of development.At present, the export capacity of Nepal is about 12 times more than what Nepal is exporting to foreign countries. In this way, based on Nepal’s current export of Rs 157 billion, Nepal’s lost export amounts to around Rs 1.9 trillion. However, the World Bank has not given the calculation of how much the country has lost year-on-year.The report, which has studied some 104 countries, states Nepal is the country that has lost the most export followed by Burundi and Rwanda.The report mentions that Nepal has not been able to increase exports even at the average rate of South Asian countries. “Since the year 2000, Nepal’s exports have been stable and has seen an increase of only 4 per cent. This shows Nepal is one of the weakest exporting countries in the world. Even if Nepal has been able to increase exports at the average rate of South Asia, Nepal would have used only used 75 per cent of its export capacity,” the report states. Looking at the study done by the World Bank, there is a possibility that Nepal even most exports says Paras Kharel, executive director at South Asia Watch on Trade, Economics and Environment (SAWTEE). “This is the export estimate based on the data of 2017, it must have increased now,” he says.The report states Nepal has lost the most export opportunities in China losing around Rs 300 billion. This was evident by last year’s export to China which amounted to Rs 1.76 billion in 2022/23.The report concluded that the second country where Nepal lost its opportunities is India. Currently, India is Nepal’s largest export destination. But the report states Nepal has missed out on Rs 162 billion despite exporting goods of around Rs 170 billion in fiscal year 2022/23.The third country where Nepal has lost the most export opportunities is the United States of America. The report mentions that Nepal has lost an opportunity to export an additional USD 800 million, which is equivalent to around Rs 100 billion. Currently, Nepal exports goods worth Rs 19.57 billion to the US.Nepal has also missed out on exports to countries like Japan, Germany, France, the UK, Italy, South Korea and Indonesia respectively.Madhu Kumar Marasini, secretary of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supply, says that the government is taking the findings of this report seriously and assessing what it can do in the future.“We are taking the suggestions given in the report and planning our strategy accordingly,” he said.Lately, there has been a noticeable decline in the number of goods Nepal exports along with the countries it exports to. Despite Nepal’s aim to diversify its trade horizons, this objective remains unmet. The country’s export range and its target markets have remained unchanged. Consequently, Nepal’s business sector has lacked innovation, says the report.In 2009, Nepal exported goods to 146 countries. However, in 2023, that number has gone down to 129. Similarly, in 2009, Nepal exported 1,167 types of goods, but in 2023, it also decreased to 1,016, according to the data of the Customs Department.Nepal’s efforts to modernise its exports have fallen short. The report highlights that a mere one per cent of Nepal’s exported items belong to the category of highly modern goods characterised by technological advancements.The fall of Nepal’s garment industry has hurt Nepal the most as the country has lost around Rs 150 billion. Unable to export electronic material has also meant Nepal has lost out on Rs 132 billion. The report also states that Nepal has missed out on the potential export of semi-processed and processed food which could bring in around Rs 150 billion.Other items that have export potential in Nepal are semi-assembled electronic materials, footwear, electrical equipment and semi-assembled vehicles among others, says the report.The study also shows if Nepal can promote the export of the items mentioned above, around 22 million jobs could be created within the country.This the study states can be achieved in 10 days. For that, the country needs to maintain an export growth rate of 15 per cent. Inspirations can be drawn from Laos which increased its exports by 14.5 percent annually between 1999 to 2019. Nepal on the other hand only saw an average growth rate of 4.5 per cent during the same period when even SAARC countries were growing at 10.6 per cent.Here are five key points that Nepal should do to increase its exports:1. Increase in foreign investmentIn order to increase exports according to its potential, the country has to bring in a large amount of foreign investment and connect Nepal’s products to the global value chain. “What is seen from the examples of countries like Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, etc., is that foreign investment is very important to join the global currency chain and become a powerhouse of exports,” the report states. However, rather than promoting foreign investment in Nepal, there are policies that discourage it.2. Reduced business costsThe report also suggests that Nepal should bring policies that reduce Nepal’s business costs considering it is a landlocked country.“Nepal’s border crossings are narrow. Infrastructure is poor. Costs are increasing due to a lack of well-organised processes for import and export clearing. If such costs can be reduced then the business can be made competitive,” says the report.3. Customs duty on raw materials and semi-finished goods should be reducedNepal has to pay high customs duties on raw materials. Businesses have to pay up to 27 per cent customs duty on raw materials of beverages and seven per cent on raw materials of agricultural produce. If the cost of export is to be reduced, such customs should be reduced. A study has shown that if the customs duty on raw materials is reduced by 10 per cent, exports will increase by 5 per cent.4. Investment in quality testing infrastructure should be increasedIn order to increase the export of high-value agricultural produce, investment in quality testing infrastructure including laboratories should be increased. However, there is a lack of accredited commercial laboratories to verify the quality of agricultural products in Nepal. This has not allowed the country’s exports to increase in value. Countries including India do not recognise the certificates issued by the labs of Nepal. Therefore, when exporting, a Nepali businessperson should bring a test certificate from an Indian lab located at a long distance, for which it takes at least nine days and on average three to four weeks.5. Digitisation is essential to increase services exportsA great potential has been seen in the export of information technology-related services from Nepal. However, this sector is facing various problems. Digital connectivity infrastructure is not developed in Nepal. Broadband access is poor across the country. By increasing investment in digitisation infrastructure, Nepal can increase its exports to a large extent.This story was translated from the original Nepali version and edited for clarity and length.He says, “A man asked me what was in the boxes, and I replied socks. Amazed, he asked me what I would do with them, so I said I will sell them in Nepal.” While Adhikari could sense some doubts from people, his excitement about seeing his idea come to life outweighed the scepticism. He did not care what people think. All that he cared about was selling the 400 pair of socks he had in the two boxes.“I wanted to sell 200 pairs in a month before I set up Dynamocks Nepal. But I sold all 400 in two weeks,” says Adhikari. “I had told the manufacturers in India I would be back for more but little did I know it would be that quick.” Today, Dynamocks Nepal sells around 700 socks a month. Naturally, Adhikari is thrilled to witness the extent to which his dreams have been realised. With its free-sized socks, Dynamocks Nepal has made it easier to appeal to a wider audience. Additionally, it has introduced loafers to further expand its user group. Adhikari’s journey in business started in 2015 when he went to Dubai to pursue a degree in fashion design. The networks he built there shaped him into who he is now.“There was a senior and I saw him talk about his business. The passion he showed for his idea inspired me too. And I wanted to bring them to Nepal as well.”A year later Adhikari was back in Nepal. When he returned, he learnt his senior had founded Dynamocks in India. The brand resonated with him and he wanted to bring it to Nepal but had a hard time convincing his senior. But in 2020, things moved forward after his senior gave him the green light.“The socks he was selling were so artistic and fashionable. I desperately wanted to introduce them to Nepal which I felt Nepal was ready for them,” says Adhikari.When he finally brought them to Nepal and sold 400 pairs in a fortnight, his hunch was validated. His senior in college was impressed at how quickly Adhikari managed to sell them. Since then he has not looked back.Socks are arguably one of the neglected areas in fashion. There are not many people who think they will make good money selling them. So, naturally, Adhikari also saw some resistance from the family when he told them that is what he wanted to do.The customs officer not allowing him to come to Nepal with two boxes of brand-new socks was also an issue but he did not let these obstacles hinder him.“I was adamant. I wanted to sell socks,” he says.He had the socks but he now needed a platform to sell them on. For that, he took to social media and with his first sponsored post, he received overwhelming responses.“We received so many queries and orders from the first week itself. People were very intrigued by the designs and it was all very encouraging,” he says. Dynamocks Nepal now has over 50 verified customers who have ordered from them more than five times. One of its loyal customers is Vivek Lekhak who was pulled by the company’s vibrant and catchy designs.“From the very first time I ordered the socks, I have been intrigued by it. I love the designs and the socks are comfortable too. I’ve recommended them to fellow adventure lovers and mountain bikers,” says Lekhak.Under the guidance of family members and advisors, like Rishab Chudal and Dharma Raj Paneru, Dynamocks Nepal has navigated through challenges and expanded its offerings. They have nurtured a loyal customer base by ensuring quality and providing incentives for repeat purchases.Design, of course, has been the strongest suit, but the sock’s durability and comfort has been the major reason why so many people buy them. In the recently held Kathmandu Kora, Dynamocks Nepal collaborated and custom-designed socks for the 150 cyclists in the event. Happy with the prompt response and the custom designs, founder of social tours and organiser of the Kora Cycling Challenge Raj Gyawali says that he is looking forward to more collaborations.There are times Adhikari gets offers to sell them in bulk. But he does not want to do that as he believes it will diminish the socks’ value both monetarily and artistically.“The manufacturer in India is very happy with the way business is growing in Nepal,” he says adding they have done all this through the help of social media.They understand there is competition in the market, but for now, Adhikari is not worried about it. For now, he is enjoying doing business in Nepal and is elated with the response from the customers so far.“It is all about fun for me. There are, of course, other sock companies or traders in Kathmandu itself. But I believe in my products and I have the support of my senior in this venture, so I feel secure that there will not be someone that will replace my product with the designs or the quality.”Adhikari says the plan is now to manufacture the socks in Nepal. Importing fabrics from India, Dynamocks Nepal has been experimenting with new designs solely for the Nepali customer base.“We are experimenting with designs for example magic mushrooms, that are more relatable to the young Nepali crowd,” he says. “I want to make designs that will resonate with bankers and businesspeople who are my major customer base.”What he does not want to do is to start making nationalistic designs. He understands these designs will sell a lot but for now, he wants to stay clear of that.Adhikari adds Dynamocks Nepal wants to work with the mountain biking and tourism industry and in the long run go global.The plan is already in play. After branching out to Pokhara and Baglung, Dynamocks Nepal aims to sell socks in the United Kingdom and Belgium.Despite the business’s growth, Adhikari has not been overly focused on expanding the number of outlets or team members. Throughout this journey, both Adhikari and his wife Ekta have been fully committed to the venture, dedicating all their time to it, even personally delivering the packages themselves.“People are shocked when they see a business owner deliver products. But I want to continue doing that so that I can see the smile, the happiness when they receive the packages,” he says.Skilled IT professionals offering IT outsourcing services from Nepal are bringing in around Rs 2 million annually.A study conducted by the Institute for Integrated Development Studies (IIDS) showed that skilled IT freelancers export services worth USD 15,322 on average annually.Unlike in some other countries where the government actively promotes the information technology sector through policy measures, Nepal’s IT companies and professionals are forging ahead in the field of information technology services without substantial government support, say experts.The study showed that in 2022 alone, information technology services worth about Rs 68 billion were exported. The study concludes that the information technology sector accounts for 1.4 per cent of Nepal’s gross domestic product and 5 per cent of total foreign exchange earnings.Those who work in the field of information technology are making a significant contribution to bringing foreign currency into the country. IIDS consultant Amrita Sharma says, “More than 6,000 companies providing information technology services have been registered in Nepal. More than 700 companies are currently exporting services.”According to the study, the number of IT professionals working in companies and independently in 2022 is 66,509. Among them, 7,212 are working in clerical data entry, 7,355 in creative and multimedia, 267 in professional services, 3,326 in sales and marketing support, 14,728 in software and development and 5,668 in writing and translation in the digital platform.The entry-level IT personnel working in Nepal earns USD 2,810 annually, the middle-level IT workers earn USD 6,395 and the skilled personnel at the higher level earn an average of USD 15,322, IIDS consultant Sharma says.Sharma also says that freelancers earn an average of USD 4,723 annually.The government distributed financial aid worth Rs 24.04 million in the last month of fiscal year 2022/23.According to the Finance Ministry, this includes the Rs 5.5 million used during the treatment of President Ram Chandra Paudel.Paudel had been taken to New Delhi of India via an air ambulance for treatment of a chest infection in April. His secretariat said Paudel wanted to cover all the expenses incurred during his medical treatment on his own.The government also handed over Rs 1 million to the family of Bed Prasad Pandey who went missing during the armed conflict.The government has also given Rs 1 million to the family of Padam Bahadur Limbu, who died in Biratnagar while protesting the name of Province 1 Koshi province.The government has also distributed aid amounting to Rs 100,000 to Rs 500,000 in the name of various other people in the last month of the fiscal year.The e-commerce bill contains several significant provisions that will have an impact on various businesses. Here are some key highlights to be aware of regarding the bill:Moreover, the preamble of the e-commerce bill provides that the intent of the bill is to regulate the e-commerce business and make it trustworthy. The necessity of a separate law to achieve this objective remains a topic of ongoing debate. Despite the existence of the consumer protection act, which clearly outlines the circumstances for product returns, refunds, and replacements, the discussion is imperative to determine the best approach for addressing e-commerce-related concerns.E-commerce simply is an act of buying or selling goods and services online. However, one of the fundamental principles that must be fulfilled by any transaction to be considered an e-commerce business is that the transaction must be completed through an automated computer network, meaning that there should be less or no human intervention. Further, such automated transactions should ensure that any person can sell or purchase goods or services without human intervention however, the method of payment and delivery may be conducted offline too.However, the bill has not provided such a definition as such and includes all services provided online as e-commerce. It is notable that the businesses like auditing and consultations may not fall under the purview of e-commerce merely because of providing such services online. This is because these services require maximum human intervention (numerous exchanges of emails between clients and consultants) which are merely automated.Further, there are various existing models in Nepal which have been providing services in various ways through internet and do not fall under any of the above categories. For instance, Hamrobazar is an e-commerce website where individuals can consummate the transaction individually and Hamrobazar does not take any amount/fee either from buyer or seller. The seller just uploads its contact details and the product which it desires to sell and the buyer directly contacts the seller without undergoing any registration in the platform.The e-commerce bill has mandated the listing of the e-commerce business in a portal to be prescribed by the department. This has created an additional compliance burden on the e-commerce platform. As there are already several existing compliance requirements (for instance: Company registration at the Office of Company Registrar, Industry Registration at the Department of Industries, PAN/VAT registration at concerned tax offices etc.), this extra listing requirement will create additional compliance requirements.Further, as e-commerce is an international business, the international e-commerce platforms will be also required to list in the portal if they deliver any goods or services in Nepal. Given the market size and fewer international transactions, it is doubtful if such a platform will be interested in listing in the portal.Looking at the bill, it is merely the repetition of existing provisions and does not provide for any new issues which are to be covered by the e-commerce laws. Some major issues that must be considered for the development of the e-commerce business are as follows:Logistics and transportation: Poor logistics remain a barrier to e-commerce in Nepal and investment in infrastructure is a must for the development of e-commerce. If people can order something online in one click, parcel delivery also needs to be reasonably quick and predictable. In this context, initiatives to strengthen the capacity of the postal sector can be relevant for facilitating e-commerce.Unfair contract terms: The regulation of the terms and policy is an important factor to ensure the fairness in use of the contractual terms which ensures that the consumer is aware of the key terms, which largely impact the consumer if were not accessed to the consumer prior to consummation of the e-commerce business transaction.Business model: It is significant to consider the emerging e-commerce business model and decide as what models are to be included within the definition of e-commerce and what are to be excluded from its periphery. For example, regulation of those persons (individuals selling products without registration) performing e-commerce business by way of setting up shop in social media.Data privacy: Lack of secure electronic equipment system ensures secure connection along with the privacy of data of the user. The more elaborate privacy chapter is to be incorporated addressing data breaches, unauthorised access, system security etc.Counterfeit product and exemption from liability: Generally, service providers like (Daraz, Hamrobazar) provide a platform to individuals, businesses or legal entities. Especially service provider like Hamrobazar provides a platform to an individual where buyer and seller can consummate the transaction themselves.In this scenario, the user may offer such product in sale which may be counterfeit or stolen and as the service providers are primarily responsible for the operation of their electronic system (platform), the question may arise as to who should be responsible for such act.Competitive policy: There are discussions and policies outlined internally with an intention to promote a fair and competitive business environment with the development of e-commerce business as questions have been raised as to whether the traditional competition/anti-trust mechanism can regulate the modern digital business approach.   The major issues faced in the competitive market is predatory pricing (selling product below the cost to reduce/eliminate competition), major discounting offers, and product favorability (showing a result of those products paying more etc).In conclusion, the e-commerce bill represents a vital step towards regulating Nepal’s e-commerce sector. To succeed, the law must adopt a comprehensive approach, addressing existing gaps and encouraging innovation. Through robust e-commerce legislation, Nepal can confidently embark on a digital future, echoing the dynamic spirit of the global e-commerce landscape.Despite the government’s efforts to promote exports, last fiscal year’s data is not promising. During the fiscal year 2022-23, Nepal’s export rate saw a decline of 21.4 per cent.According to the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supplies, Nepal’s total commodity exports amounted to Rs 157 billion during the last fiscal year.In a meeting of the Industry, Commerce and Labour and Consumers’ Welfare Committee under the House of Representatives on Tuesday, commerce and supplies secretary Madhu Kumar Marasini said there was also a 16.1 per cent drop in total imports last fiscal year. Nepal imported commodities worth Rs 1.611 trillion during the period.Nepal’s total foreign trade also witnessed a fall last year. The country recorded foreign trade equivalent to Rs 1.786 trillion which is a 16.6 per cent decrease compared to the previous year.The assessment of primary data of the last fiscal year shows that in total trade the contribution of exports is 8.9 per cent followed by 91 per cent of imports. The trade review showed that Nepal’s exports dropped by 21.4 per cent.In the fiscal year 2021/22, the export-import ratio stood at 1:9.6, but in 2022/23, it reached 1:10.Marasini said discussions have been held with people concerned in view of the effective implementation of the National Plan of Action on Trade Deficit, 2022 and the Nepal Trade Integration Strategy, 2023 to bridge the burgeoning trade gap.A meeting of the Board of Trade was held under the chair of the Industry Minister, making significant decisions to promote export trade.As of July 28, the rice transplantation rate across the country stood at 77 per cent, according to the Agriculture Information and Training Center.Center Chief Prakash Kumar Sanjel said 90 per cent of rice plantation had already been completed in the corresponding period last year.Paddy has been planted in a total area of 1,053,404 hectares out of 1,357,816 hectares across the country as of the last week of July.In the Koshi province, 84 per cent of the rice cultivation has been carried out compared to 88 per cent during the same period last year.Rice plantation takes place on 275,133 hectares of land in the Province and this time it has been done so far on 231,112 hectares.Likewise, in Madhes province, rice has been cultivated in 209,086 hectares, accounting for 59 per cent of the total 354,383 arable land. Last year, by the fourth week of July, this figure was at 83 per cent.In the Bagmati province, the rice cultivation rate currently stands at 72 per cent, while it was at 93 per cent during the same period last year. The province has reported rice transplantation on 81,420 hectares out of the total 113,083 hectares of land that is allotted for rice cultivation.In Gandaki province, out of the total 104,622 hectares of arable land, paddy transplantation has taken place in 85,790 so far (82 per cent), a drop from 96 per cent during the same period last year.Lumbini province has seen paddy cultivation in 243,318 of the total 300,392 hectares (81 per cent), a decrease from 85 per cent last year.In Karnali province, paddy transplantation has occurred in 32,918 of the total 38,727 hectares (85 per cent), an increase from 78 per cent last year.In Sudurpaschim province, paddy plantation has been completed in 169,761 of a total of 171,476 (99 per cent). The same percentage of paddy cultivation took place during the same period last year, according to the Centre.Utilising this comparative advantage could bolster the overall economy. Nepali tea traditions, such as the practice of serving tea with hospitality and warmth, can be leveraged to create unique experiences for foreign diplomats and visitors. Moreover, the tea industry can play an effective role in Nepal because it can reduce the trade deficit and it could act as a source of public diplomacy.The fusion of cultural heritage and tea can form the foundation of engaging tea diplomacy initiatives that showcase Nepal’s distinct identity and foster cultural exchange. While Nepal’s tea production has predominantly catered to traditional markets, the time has come for this Himalayan nation to diversify its tea markets. By expanding its reach beyond its existing customer base, Nepal can unlock a plethora of opportunities and reap numerous benefits.Tea production in Nepal has seen significant growth, rising from 18,726 metric tons in 2011/12 to 263,791 metric tons in 2021/22. Around half of the tea produced is consumed domestically, while the rest is exported. The analysis of domestic market prices reveals that the total value of tea transactions in Nepal exceeds Rs 8 billion, based on a price of Rs 400 per kilogram for CTC and orthodox tea. Despite India being a major consumer historically, statistics indicate that Nepali tea sold in the Indian market fetches a price of Rs 560 per kilogram, which is not significantly higher than the minimum price in the domestic market. Therefore, there is a need to explore new market areas for Nepali tea based on this data.Nepali tea traders have faced difficulties and obstacles at the Indian border in recent years, prompting them to explore alternative markets. The price of Nepali tea is nearly double in the European Union and American markets compared to India, and it is approximately six times higher in the Chinese market. Considering these factors, China appears to be the most suitable market for Nepali tea. However, the foundation for export growth relies on increasing production. If the current export volume can be directed towards markets that offer higher prices, including China, it will strengthen the tea export market and contribute to the overall economy.By simultaneously increasing the export volume, the Nepali tea sector has the potential to become a significant force in the country’s economy.Tea has long been associated with cultural traditions, hospitality, and social gatherings in Nepal. Tea diplomacy offers Nepal an opportunity to highlight its cultural heritage and promote its unique identity globally.Through tea ceremonies, cultural exchanges, and inviting foreign dignitaries to experience Nepali tea culture, Nepal can strengthen interpersonal connections and enhance its international image. The government’s implementation of the collective trademark ‘Nepal Tea, Quality from the Himalayas’ in 2018 should be expanded to measure quality effectively. Cultural diplomacy through tea has the potential to enhance Nepal’s soft power, increasing its influence and fostering mutual understanding among nations. Tea diplomacy serves as a platform to showcase Nepal’s diverse culture, customs, and craftsmanship, leaving a lasting impression on international communities. During national festivals and official delegations, Nepali tea can be presented as gifts and high prices can be achieved by engaging with industry and commerce associations and tea-related organisations in respective countries, catering to the preferences of buyers.The tea sector in Nepal faces obstacles in reaching its full potential. Challenges include certification and testing gaps, branding issues, poor working conditions, and limited social protection for tea workers. Nepal depends on Indian labs for tea quality assessment due to the lack of testing facilities, resulting in limited control. Additionally, India, as the largest buyer, sometimes imposes import barriers to protect its tea industry, further burdening Nepal. India’s tea sector, which is facing a decline in terms of quality, often criticises Nepali tea and does not provide favourable prices.To address these issues, solutions are available. Policy and structural reforms at the state level could solve those internal challenges. In dealing with India, Nepal can utilise international forums or engage directly in bilateral discussions, as diplomatic efforts play a crucial role in resolving disputes.The proposed tea diplomacy aims to shift the current situation where most tea exports go to India, and instead create a scenario where an equal amount is exported to countries other than India.In conclusion, the tea industry can play an effective role in bolstering the overall economy of Nepal and also helps in fostering Nepal’s image at the international level through public diplomacy. However, it faces challenges from neighbouring established industries. Maintaining a competitive product is the utmost prerequisite.Governments often engage in economic diplomacy through diplomatic channels, trade promotion organisations, and economic ministries. To accomplish shared economic objectives, it also entails working with non-state entities including multinational corporations, industry associations, think tanks, and civil society organisations. However, the question is how concerned Nepal is about economic diplomacy or is it a mere fanfare idea for Nepal.Nepal started a phase of economic liberalisation and market-oriented reforms in the 1990s. During this time, the economy was opened up more, foreign investment was attracted, and active participation in regional and international economic forums increased.Early in the new millennium, organisations like the Department of Commerce and Supply Management (DoCSM) and the Nepal Investment Board (NIB) were established, signalling a more organised approach to encouraging foreign investment and facilitating trade. These organisations have contributed to the advancement of Nepal’s economic diplomacy goals.The failure to implement economic diplomacy was highlighted by the first official visit of Nepal’s Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala to France on March 5, 2001. Ram Sharan Mahat, the finance minister, was with him. Shares in the French-invested Indoswiss Bank (Investment Bank) were the subject of a dispute at the time. When Nepal rejected their proposal to expand the shares, the bank exhibited discernment.A meeting with the prime minister was requested by an Indoswiss official. Perhaps the bank was willing to raise its share capital in order to take part in a development project in Nepal. However, it was impossible because of Mahat’s position that the bank chairman should not be permitted to meet with Prime Minister Koirala. Nepal did not understand how crucial non-state actors are to a nation’s ability to pursue its economic interests.A proposal was made in 2002 following the retirement of the French airport’s director. He was interested in developing an airport and a hotel because he had extensive experience and had studied Lumbini. He had proposed a scheme to fly directly to Lumbini from several nations, bringing masses of Buddhist visitors to Nepal. The conversations with Nepal Air Corporation did not produce any significant outcomes. If Nepal had accepted the offer, it would not have needed to hear China’s claim for an airport under the Belt and Road Initiative.Many businesses were eager to work with Nepal Airlines Corporation. A Spanish company volunteered to fly the plane and take on 80 per cent of the passengers in exchange for a profit-sharing arrangement, but their offer was rejected. It demonstrates Nepal’s failure to seize an opportunity when it was presented to them.As a result of globalisation, the non-state actor now plays a significant part in determining one’s foreign policy. In terms of internalising such information, India is fairly advanced. This was evident during Indian PM Narendra Modi’s recent trip to the US. In the US, he received a regal reception.He held appointments with the CEO of the business sector as well as the head of the state. CEOs from Tesla, Apple, Alphabet, and Microsoft met with Modi. The Nepali government appears to be unable to keep up with foreign news and trends.The founder of Alibaba, Jack Ma, recently paid a visit to Nepal. People were hopeful that he will meet with the prime minister or finance minister and discuss economic matters. During his two-day tour, he was spotted walking around different areas and keeping a low profile. Both parties appeared unconcerned about the meeting.Although economic diplomacy has potential for Nepal, it is crucial to approach it strategically while taking into account the nation’s particular circumstances, difficulties, and long-term goals.First and foremost, the Nepal government has to comprehend how the protocol is evolving and changing. A protocol is a set of guidelines that specify how an action should be conducted, particularly in the context of diplomacy.As time passes, so do customs. To begin the conversation, one does not need to be the other person’s counterpart. When it comes to a nation’s interest, which promotes economic growth, expands trade prospects, and strengthens its place in the global economy, it can be started at any level.Second, Nepal has to understand the importance of non-state actors in international relations. They frequently participate in economic diplomacy by fostering international trade and investment. They take part in trade missions, business forums, and high-level meetings to discuss market access challenges, push for pro-trade policies, and look for chances for cooperation. Their participation help strengthen commercial relationships and promote international economic cooperation.To sum up, effective economic diplomacy requires cooperation between the public and private sectors. It should not be treated as merely a showpiece idea; rather, it should be carried out in accordance with the government’s chosen course of action.The import and export data for the fiscal year 2022/23 are out. According to the Department of Customs, Nepal’s top import was diesel while its top export was carpets.The data states Nepal spent around Rs 463 billion in the fiscal year on 10 major imported goods while the country earnt around Rs 67.41 billion by exporting 10 major commodities.Here are the top 10 imports and exports –The public debt owed by the government amounts to more than Rs 2.221 trillion.According to the data released by the Public Debt Management Office, the government’s internal loans amount to more than Rs 1.1 trillion and external loans stand at Rs 1.093 trillion.In the fiscal year 2022/23, the size of public debt witnessed a significant increase of over Rs 200 billion. A year ago, the total public debt stood at Rs 2.012 trillion. However, during the last fiscal year, the internal debt rose by Rs 140 billion, and the external loan saw a substantial increase of Rs 675 billion, according to the Office’s data.This 25-year-old food delivery rider has been working in Foodmandu for the past six months and that is her everyday routine. Recently, she came across a new initiative that could help her get an electric scooter and if everything goes well, Majhi is excited to make her deliveries on a brand new scooter, that she will own.The initiative she believes can help riders like her to achieve their daily target and commute easier, and foster a greener future.The initiative in question is being introduced under the Women for a Greener Future project that aims to help women in Nepal, feel empowered with the ownership of electric vehicles and also by helping them secure jobs in the logistics industry. The initiative has been conceptualised by Aloi, a fintech company, working to empower women for a greener future. Explaining the initiative, Project Lead Birat Singh Thakuri says, “Aloi will help women with access to loans, which they can use for anything ranging from training on how to ride, obtaining driving licenses as well as help them purchase the electric scooters in easily with more payment options.”The project is also partially funded by the National Geographic Society.Thakuri further says the initiative aims to change the current scenario in various aspects. The overall objective is that they want to see more women riders using electric vehicles that they own on the road. “We are working on the aspect of women empowerment, we are increasing the number of electric vehicles on the road and taking a step towards a more environment-friendly commuting ecosystem,” says Thakuri.Connecting women to the workforce, especially the logistics industry that sees a heavy number of male riders, is another target of the company, he says. “These riders are the ones with the most commuting need. And the majority are males using two-wheelers that use petrol, and women riders, cycle riders as well as those using electric scooters are in the minority.”Priority will be given to women who are seeking jobs in the logistics industry, but women who already have jobs and just want to purchase the scooter, have the job and petrol scooter but want to switch to EVs and those who just want to own a scooter will also be considered within the project. To bring this ambitious project into the field, Aloi is partnering with banks for easy collateral-free loans, logistics companies for workforce employment, and electric scooter firms for discounted scooters. They are also collaborating with other stakeholders to engage women through informative sessions, making its ambitious project a reality. “We believe that this project is a win-win for everyone,” he claims.“It has been just over a month that we have been flowing the information about the project, and we are getting positive responses, both from the women and the stakeholders that we are partnering with,” he assures.A key highlight of this project is that it will bring all the stakeholders under Aloi’s in-house app or platform that enables seamless recording, tracking, and monitoring of the transactions assuring that the loans are being used for the disclosed purpose only. And women who signup for the initiative will be saving a portion of their salary to pay the EMIs, where the banking institutions will facilitate the monthly or regular transactions, creating a more stable payment ecosystem.The project is currently in the pilot phase but is expected to take full-fledged shape within July itself and it hopes to onboard over 100 women in a year. Will it achieve the target and build a greener future?The initiative has been hearing positive responses from its stakeholders. Banks are ready to give easy loans to women and help them purchase, and logistic companies they have tied up are encouraging women to apply and join the workforce while also asking existing female employees to switch to EVs. And e-scooter companies are also naturally happy about the expected transactions. The added notion of women empowerment and environment-friendly initiative has been encouraging the stakeholders too to be a part of the greener future. But as the first phase of the initiative is going live, the question remains will the females be open to joining the present male-dominated sector? First, on the number itself, management of Bhoj, Foodmandu, Khaanpin, and Upaya all share they are positive to welcome the new female workforce, as they unanimously voice that they have always kept the doors open to anyone who walks in, eager to work for them. The nature of the sector also encourages more riders, they say. According to Isha Balla, co-founder of Khaanpin, “The sector is very fickle in terms of workforce, as retention of the same rider has been a bit difficult. So, the increasing numbers will surely help.”Bhoj’s co-founder Niket Agrawal also says it will not create saturation in the workforce so the women are welcome.In the current scenario, women riders are in the minority. Bhoj has over 250 riders but only five are women, whereas Khaanpin has some 40 riders but two active women riders. Upaya also has a similar ratio with three or four female riders at a time and Foodmandu has five riders active in Kathmandu at the moment.Given the tipped scale, encouraging women to join the workspace has been a struggle. But the logistic partners are positive that the benefits including the ownership and the freedom will encourage more women to be a part of this. As per Melissa Rajopadhyaya, director of people operations manager for Upaya, to change the scenario what females need is the right motivation and inspiration. “If we take the example of tempo operators, the sector also saw majorly males as drivers. But today the sector has been female-oriented. It can be a great case study to see how we can encourage females to be more active and lead, free of biases and hesitation.”Aloi, which has helped females get easy loans to purchase safa tempos and batteries for vehicles, is also positive to see the same result replicated in its new project too.Riders like Majhi are also positive, “I am very positive about switching to an electric scooter. It is economic and is good for the environment too.” In the same office, 23-year-old Riti Subba, who works as a brand marketing executive, is also interested in switching to an electric scooter. “I have gone back and forth about it. The scooter I am using is more than seven years old now. And, with some deliberations, I think can switch to EV as well.”But Subba does have some concerns over the immediate switch.When it comes to EVs, Nepal is still new in the game. Though lucrative, there is a lot that is still in the experimental phase and it has not garnered the confidence of everybody. Naturally, that is the biggest reservation everybody is having and the education about the EV is the key concern too. Subba adds here, “The nature of my job demands that I go places and, one of my concerns is of course if the battery would be enough, and where I can charge it when I need it.”“There is also the fact about how well it would perform in all terrains, especially uphills,” she adds.Excluding the terrain, Aloi and the logistic companies say they are working on installing charging stations at their office premises and in their network to ease the commute for the riders and address their concerns over charging.But that is not the only concern. The average range of the cheaper variants of the electric scooters is about 60 to 70 km and their size is smaller than the average petrol scooters too. So, for the delivery riders, how feasible or which model will suit their daily travel needs and accommodate the heavy bag they have to carry with them is still up for debate. Majhi shares that a few riders she has seen riding the electric scooters already say they are having no problem, and looking at her average travel range, she is positive about switching to EV and delivering more.And, as per the contract, the logistics companies will only be giving jobs to the riders. So, the research on which EV will suit their riders the best has not topped their concern list.However, this also means that the females who want to join the workforce or own the scooter will have to bear the finances and EMIs for the process. There is no finance from the management of the logistics companies available as of now though some say they are considering it. Majhi says, so far, it seems feasible for her to cover the expenses for the scooter. Same for Subba. But for 18-year-old Puspa Sunuwar considering ownership at the moment is not possible. Sunuwar is in training with Life Project 4 Youth (LP4Y) for six months and only when she starts earning will she be able to consider the purchase, “But I am positive about getting a scooter for myself later.”Nepal Rastra Bank announced the new monetary policy for the fiscal year 2023/24 on Sunday.The central bank’s Governor Maha Prasad Adhikari launched the new policy in a televised address this afternoon.Here are key points of the policy that might affect your economic life for the newly begun fiscal year:In the current fiscal year, Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has set a target of limiting inflation to 6.5 per cent. To achieve this, the central aims to deploy monetary management strategies to maintain stable economic conditions and prevent price pressure resulting from excessive monetary expansion. In line with ensuring financial stability, NRB has established a targetted loan growth of 11.5 per cent. In the current fiscal year 2023/24, Nepal Rastra Bank has maintained its previous policy regarding the real estate business in their monetary policy.In the fiscal year 2022/23, the monetary policy stipulated that the maximum loan amount allowed for real estate mortgages would be based on a ratio of up to 30 per cent of the fair market value in Kathmandu Valley and up to 40 per cent in other locations. It is noteworthy that this particular policy remains unaltered in the current fiscal year’s monetary policy as well.However, the monetary policy has given some concessions to the general public who are buying their first home. The loan limit for first-home buyers has been increased to Rs 20 million. Earlier it was 15 million.The government has introduced a policy to make it easier for Nepalis to visit abroad. The monetary policy has given a significant discount on the dollar exchange facility.Starting this year, Nepalis planning to travel to countries other than India will benefit from an increased passport facility allowance of USD 2,500 twice a year, compared to the earlier limit of USD 1,500. Additionally, the government has introduced a 2 per cent foreign tourism fee for Nepali citizens embarking on foreign tours.Nepal Rastra Bank has reduced the policy rate. It has kept the bank rate unchanged at 7.5 per cent. While announcing the monetary policy, NRB announced that the policy rate has been reduced by 50 basis points bringing it down to 6.5 per cent. Similarly, while keeping the bank rate unchanged at 7.5 per cent, the deposit collection rate has been reduced from 5.5 per cent to 4.5 per cent.As announced by the government’s 2023/24 budget, NRB will facilitate the establishment of a separate regulatory body to regulate cooperatives. Now, a separate specialised regulatory body will be established for the effective regulation and supervision of savings and credit cooperatives.There is no change in the existing arrangement concerning share securities. Similar to the previous monetary policy, a maximum limit of Rs 120 million was set for the single customer’s margin loan limit from one or multiple licensed financial institutions.Despite demands from share investors to ease the loan restrictions on share mortgages, the monetary policy for the current fiscal year did not introduce any changes in this regard. Investors have been demanding that the loan of share mortgage should be eased. However, the monetary policy has announced that the existing risk-weighting arrangements for share mortgage loans, real estate loans and hire purchase loans will be reviewed.NRB has announced a monetary policy to support industries/businesses including information technology and communication (ITC) which are operated with the aim of exporting services.Such industries and businesses can establish contact offices in third countries, purchase software or programs and install equipment, make payments to foreign agencies or transfer money to their own foreign accounts through commercial banks.As part of this initiative, the monetary policy has declared that commercial banks will offer foreign exchange facilities up to a certain percentage of the foreign currency earnings generated by the industry. This will be granted to the industry based on specific documents as outlined in the policy.On Sunday, NRB reaffirmed its practice of providing an additional one per cent interest on remittances deposited into bank accounts. This arrangement was upheld in the monetary policy announcement for the ongoing fiscal year.NRB has set a goal to reduce the number of microfinance institutions in the country and wants many to merge. It is planning to implement recommendations from a comprehensive study report to effectively address challenges faced by the microfinance sector.Similarly, socialism and its ideals have become a focal point for different political parties in Nepal —conventional, new, centre, left, fractured, regional, ethnicity-based, and conservative — to come together and form a political alliance to serve each other’s self-interests.It has become an umbrella term to unite all. Likewise, many people in Nepal still dream that someday the socialism of BP Koirala or Karl Marx can solve various socio-political or economic problems lingering in our society.Furthermore, most of the people in Nepal anticipate the government to effectively achieve its socialist ideals like comprehensive social welfare, government freebies, distribution of wealth, unconditional basic income, efficient nationalised industries, giving priority to equality, quotas, and reservation systems, direct state intervention in different sectors of the economy, government control of interest rates, wages, and pricing, and imposing high taxes on rich individuals and corporations.However, in a society obsessed with private property, wealth inheritance, family business, nepotism, favouritism, and social hierarchy, the popularity of a socialist ethos appears self-contradictory, paradoxical, and even phoney. After all, when it comes to giving up private properties for public ownership, paying taxes on income and wealth, and collective cooperation, Nepalis do feel reluctant.The government has to take ownership and responsibility for everything in the socialist model of governance. It lines up from running universities, sports facilities, employment opportunities, education, and healthcare. Nepal’s socialist-oriented political parties running the government have been smart enough to keep Nepali people satisfied with token social welfare programmes and promises of freebies that are neither comprehensive nor sustainable. And, to exert its control over people and their private enterprises, the government, both federal and local, also comes up with restrictions that undermine individual choice, agency, and freedom of expression. Besides, to solve the socio-economic problems, the government has invested in, formulated, and established many bogus, non-competitive, and irrelevant institutions, programmes, and public enterprises that have only served the interests of political parties and their associates. Hence, so many public-owned enterprises and institutions are simply a burden on taxpayers. In a society where everyone looks up to the government, everything becomes dependent on and limited by those who are running the government or close to the politicians of the ruling parties. Unfortunately, this has resulted in unholy collusion and collaboration. Collaboration between the business class, contractors, and politicians in which a few established business people, members of political parties, student unions, powerful syndicates and unions, and some bureaucrats close to politicians are able to mobilise and manipulate state mechanisms for their own interests. Hence, Nepal has not been able to maximise the benefits of free enterprise. A free enterprise such as a free market and private enterprises. Then millions of Nepali people are ironically forced to seek employment opportunities in countries where there is limited government, economic freedom, free enterprises, freedom of expression, business-friendly policies, and an industrialised market economy.Socialist criticism of society makes the false assumption that business persons and private enterprises achieve material gains, successes, and profit maximisation due to exploitation of the masses, manipulation of the system, and corruption. Whereas in reality, many people from poor economic backgrounds have become rich and successful due to their hard work, commitment, risk-taking, entrepreneurship, business initiation, and effective decision-making without exploiting the masses or manipulating the system. However, based on socialist analysis, most people in Nepal believe that people with money control everything and are also corrupt. As a result, society runs on needless hatred of the business class and industrialists.Moreover, the problem with the socialist governance model is that it gives priority to government systems, policies, collectivist ideals, and state mechanisms over individual decisions, choices, or private initiations and actions. Whereas, due to the sociocultural influence of globalisation, people in Nepal are also becoming more individualistic, and their mindset is driven by personal interests, freedom, and independence. As a result, individuals and private business ventures with brilliant business ideas feel burdened by the rigid regulations of the government in Nepal. Moreover, they become reluctant to initiate business and industrial ventures in Nepal. This rigidity also undermines foreign direct investment.Almost everyone wants to live in a society that is classless and provides equal outcomes to all, together with comprehensive social welfare and collective ownership; however, political aspirations and events that have been undertaken to fulfil these dreams have only resulted in division, destruction, deaths, exploitation, and misery for millions of people in Nepal.Take the examples of China and India, both of which, after moving beyond the ideals of Maoism and Nehruvian socialism and adjusting and adopting economic liberalisation, business-friendly policies, and a free market economy, have become the second and fifth-largest economies in the world, respectively. Surely, in Nepal, we can also rethink, explore, and consider other political and economic ideals apart from socialism to overcome our socioeconomic problems.Ara Nepal is a homegrown brand specialising in designer sandals and slippers catering to women. Additionally, the brand offers a unique service of customising shoes based on individual customer preferences and requirements. Ara Nepal’s expertise lies in creating footwear specifically tailored to suit the shape and size of Nepali feet, ensuring a perfect fit and comfortable wearing experience.“Ara is an Arabic word meaning ‘origin and present’,” says Rana. “We named the company Ara Nepal with the belief that it should be run according to the current needs.”As they contemplated starting a business, both Rana and Thapa were initially unsure about the process but knew they wanted to venture into the shoe industry. Their motivation stemmed from their personal experience of struggling to find matching pairs of shoes for themselves. Additionally, they were determined to contribute to Nepal’s economy by producing footwear locally.During their thorough market research, they learn what they need to do to produce shoes and slippers in Nepal. Despite their determination to start a business, they decided to keep their plans a secret from their families for the time being.“We started the business by raising the funds on our own and moved forward supporting each other,” says Rana.Ara Nepal, born on Instagram just two years ago, has now become a fully operational and thriving business for the past 10 months. With their dedication and hard work, the brand has successfully established itself as a manufacturer of a diverse range of slippers and sandals, encompassing flats, wedges, heels, and closed designs, all uniquely crafted in-house with their signature touch.Dissatisfied with their jobs, both Rana and Thapa reached a mutual decision to start something they could call their own. Determined to build something, they pooled their savings and invested Rs 800,000 into their business idea.The company’s first product was durable and appealing slippers. To ensure the products were entirely made in Nepal, they sourced materials like resin, soles, insoles, foam, gum, sewing thread, buckles, elastic, and more from local suppliers.“We had heard that goods made in Nepal are expensive but didn’t know the reason. But after starting this business, we realised why,” says Rana adding how costly raw materials are. “Handmade slippers cannot be produced in thousands. That’s why shoes and slippers made in Nepal have become more expensive than imported ones.”Ara Nepal sells around 20 to 25 pairs of slippers daily. However, during the festive season of Dashain and the summer season, the demand for their products significantly increases. Specifically, during Dashain, they witness a surge in sales, with approximately 40 to 50 pairs of shoes being sold daily.They say that they are currently selling 600 pairs of sandals and slippers per month and make around Rs 500,000. To cope with the demand, they have employed eight people who make these slippers while the two manage the office administration, sales distribution and operations. Ara Nepal offers a delightful selection of designer shoes that are not only of good quality but also comfortable to wear. This combination has made it a beloved choice among customers, earning the brand a strong and loyal following.“We both wear the sandals for a month to see how easy they are and then keep them for sale,” says Rana.According to Thapa, if any of Ara Nepal’s slippers happen to get damaged after wearing them six to eight times, the brand is committed to providing repair services for its customers.“We also guarantee that it will last for eight months,” she says.What has also helped Ara Nepal gain popularity is it also provides offers customisation of slippers and sandals. Currently, the brand is selling its product from Rs 1,299 to Rs 2,399. “Earlier, we sold slippers for Rs 999 but due to the high cost of raw materials, we had to increase the price of slippers,” she says.The brand also offers discounts through loyalty cards when purchasing slippers and shoes. It offers a five per cent discount on the third order, a 20 per cent discount on the sixth order and a 50 per cent discount on the 12th order.The company does not have a physical store or a website yet and takes orders through Instagram, TikTok and Facebook pages.Ara Nepal is actively expanding its product range and has ambitious plans for the future. Alongside their existing line of women’s slippers, closed and heels, they are gearing up to introduce sports shoes to their collection. Moreover, they are also venturing into creating footwear for men and children.According to Rana, Ara Nepal is in the process of diversifying its product offerings to include a wide range of footwear, such as slippers, sports shoes, loafers, closed shoes, and boots. Despite not having a physical shop or showroom at present, the brand has exciting plans underway. They are preparing to open their first showroom in Pokhara soon.The two want to start from Pokhara as they get a lot of orders from there.“Since we are based in Kathmandu, we are thinking of opening a store outside the valley. Then we will open it in the valley,” she says.This story was translated from the original Nepali version and edited for clarity and length.Hence it is time that Nepal should take a leap for a transformative paradigm shift based on the principles of doughnut economics. It is a holistic framework that places social equity and environmental sustainability at the core of economic policymaking.By prioritising these values, Nepal can unlock its economic potential and pave the way for a prosperous and inclusive future.Doughnut economics, coined by renowned economist Kate Raworth, presents a new vision for the 21st-century economy. The concept revolves around two fundamental boundaries—a social foundation and an ecological ceiling.The social foundation refers to the minimum standards of well-being that all individuals should have access to, including basic needs like food, water, education, and healthcare. The ecological ceiling represents the planet’s environmental limits, beyond which we risk causing irreversible damage to the Earth’s ecosystems.The area between these two boundaries, often referred to as the doughnut, is a safe and just space for humanity. It represents the space in which societies can thrive without exceeding the Earth’s capacity to regenerate resources or absorb waste.By aligning economic activity within this safe and just space, countries can create an economy that ensures no one falls short on life’s essentials while respecting planetary boundaries.Shifting away from the sole reliance on GDP as a measure of success, Nepal can develop its own comprehensive well-being index, as inspired by Bhutan’s Gross National Happiness (GNH) index. This index would go beyond material wealth and encompass factors like education, healthcare, income distribution, social cohesion, and environmental conservation.By measuring and evaluating these aspects, Nepal can gain a more comprehensive understanding of its progress and focus on achieving genuine well-being for its citizens.Holistic economic models, as seen in Denmark and New Zealand, demonstrate the effectiveness of aligning economic growth with social well-being and environmental sustainability. Following their examples, Nepal can prioritise renewable energy sources, invest in sustainable urban planning, and establish robust social welfare systems.This approach fosters a thriving economy that benefits all citizens while minimising environmental impact. By learning from these countries, Nepal can achieve high levels of social cohesion, economic prosperity, and environmental sustainability.Nepal’s unique cultural fabric, rooted in communal values and interdependence, provides an opportunity to foster inclusive economic growth.Investing in the well-being of its people, as demonstrated in Norway and Sweden, will empower marginalised communities and drive sustainable economic growth. Access to quality healthcare and education can improve overall quality of life and enhance productivity and economic resilience.System thinking offers a powerful framework for shaping Nepal’s economic future. By learning from Germany’s Energiewende initiative, which integrates renewable energy sources, energy efficiency measures, and socio-economic factors, Nepal can address social equity, economic stability, and environmental resilience while driving sustainable economic growth.Addressing inequality through progressive tax policies and promoting regenerative design principles, as seen in the Netherlands, can contribute to a more inclusive society and unlock Nepal’s economic potential.Sustainable tourism, eco-friendly agriculture, and circular economy practices can be instrumental in preserving the environment while driving economic growth.Unleashing Nepal’s economic potential demands a fundamental shift in mindset and approach. Doughnut economics provides a holistic framework that emphasises social equity and environmental sustainability, paving the way for inclusive prosperity.By redefining success, embracing holistic models, nurturing human nature, adopting systems thinking, promoting equity, and transitioning to a post-growth mindset, Nepal can create an economy that benefits all its citizens and ensures a prosperous and resilient future for generations to come.This transformative journey calls for visionary leadership, comprehensive policy reforms, and collective efforts from all stakeholders to achieve a brighter future that harmonises economic progress with social well-being and environmental stewardship.India has put a ban on exporting rice. India’s Ministry of Consumer Affairs issued a notice on Thursday to announce the news that it is banning the export of non-basmati.This decision from India is due to impact Nepal drastically as most of the rice Nepal imports comes from India.In the first 11 months of the past fiscal year, Nepal imported rice worth Rs 14.44 billion from India. That is around 200 million kilograms.Indian media claims that this decision was taken to prevent food shortages in the country due to the low monsoon in India, which will reduce rice production. This will impact global trade, say experts.The Nepal Rastra Bank Governor Maha Prasad Adhikari said the monetary policy for the fiscal year 2023/24 will be issued in line with the budget policy. Preparations are underway to bring the monetary policy the next week, he said.The monetary policy would focus on achieving economic growth as per the budget target, controlling inflation and managing the external sector, he said while attending the meeting of the Finance Committee under the Federal Parliament’s House of Representatives.Although there are some positive economic indicators like the balanced external sector, decreasing interest rates and adequacy of liquidity, some problems like inflation, deficit reserve fund and sluggish credit expansion persist, he said.“The permissible limit of inflation for the previous fiscal year was seven per cent, and it remains above that this fiscal year. The reserve fund is in a deficit of Rs 193 billion. The credit expansion has decreased despite good deposit collection,” he said. The external sector seems to facilitate as compared to the previous year, he said.“Now, there is liquidity worth Rs 88.5 billion in the banking system. The current accounts suffer a deficit of Rs 70 billion, and there were difficulties to recover loans due to the market slowdown,” he said. The Central Bank would take an appropriate decision in finding ways to balance the country’s economy, he added. “Today’s problems are a slowdown in real estate, and failure to collect revenues and achieve capital expenditure as per target. The monetary policy does not have all instruments to resolve problems. We will use whatever instruments we have,” he said.According to the Nepal Rastra Bank, the interest and base rates of loans and deposits are decreasing, and the CD ratio has dropped to 82 per cent.It is essential for everyone to comprehend this seasonal eye condition and take appropriate preventive measures to safeguard our eye health during the warmer months.As the summer season arrives, Nepal faces a recurring challenge with numerous cases of conjunctivitis, commonly known as pink eye, surfacing in different regions. The incessant rainfall over recent weeks has contributed to the spread of this eye infection in the Tarai region, Kathmandu Valley, and other provinces. The situation is worsened by waterlogging in several regions, and with the monsoon season underway, there has been a significant surge in conjunctivitis and eye flu cases.The unusual showers, flooding, and higher atmospheric moisture levels have created an ideal environment for the proliferation of bacteria and viruses, resulting in a drastic increase in infections. The rise in humidity and water contamination further exacerbates the nationwide spike in conjunctivitis cases.Summer conjunctivitis can stem from various sources, making us all susceptible to exposure. The main causes and modes of transmission include:Awareness is the first step towards overcoming any challenge. Recognising the symptoms of summer conjunctivitis is vital for early detection and prompt management. Keep an eye out for the following hallmark signs:To protect ourselves and others from summer conjunctivitis, we can take specific preventive measures:In case you are diagnosed with conjunctivitis, follow these steps:As the summer season approaches and we all engage in various outdoor activities, the risk of summer conjunctivitis becomes more prevalent for everyone. Let’s be vigilant and take necessary precautions to protect our eye health. By staying informed, educating ourselves, and taking preventive measures, we can ensure a safer and healthier summer for all. Remember, seeking professional medical advice is crucial for accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment. Together, we can safeguard our eye health and make the most of the summer season!Further, it has ensured inclusive provisions and other provisions have increased women’s participation comparatively at the local level as well. With all these provisions in Nepal’s constitution, the status of women’s representation at the local level is still unsatisfactory due to the loopholes of the law, which have hampered their representation.In 2017, Nepal marked a significant milestone by conducting its first elections after the adoption of the new constitution in 2015. This event was notable as it was the first time in more than 17 years that the country held elections at the local level under the federal republican political system. It was also a successful year in terms of women’s political empowerment and social inclusion as it saw representation from women and marginalised voters and candidates. The first local-level election after Republican Nepal was held in three phases.There were a total of 148,364 candidates and among them only 57,843 were female. Election Result book, 2074 (Page 31) published by Election Commission shows that 3,541 representatives were elected with which the number of female elected representatives was 14,352. It is 40.95 per cent. Out of 6,743 wards, 173 wards had no candidates of Dalit female candidates and women’s representation was hampered due to null candidacy.The second local-level election under the federal structure took place on May 13, 2022. According to the Election Commission, the number of adult voters was 17,733,723. Out of which, 8,741,530 were women. This is 49.29 per cent of the total voters. Election result book, 2022 (Page18) shows that from the local level election 2022, 35,221 representatives were to be elected directly. Among them, 14,239 seats are mandatory and secured for female representatives.However, the number of total elected female representatives in the local-level election in 2022 is 14,466. In this election, 123 wards out of 6,743 total wards had no candidate from Dalit female member and one ward was null in female member candidacy.The data analysed is from the latest election result book of the Election Commission. As per this, 41.21 per cent of women are among the total elected in 2022 compared to 40.9 per cent in 2017. In the first federal local level election 14,402 women got elected in 2022 compared to 14,352 in 2017. Based on the statistics, it is evident that there was a decline in the number of women contestants in the 2022 local elections compared to the 2017 elections. However, despite this downward trend, the final number of women who were successfully elected in the 2022 elections appears to be slightly higher than that of the 2017 elections.This clearly indicates the higher winnability displayed by the women candidates in the 2022 local elections. However, it has been found in practice that women are made candidates due to the compulsion of law and not for meaningful representation. For example, among two major posts at the local level, one is mandatory for female candidates where parties are compelled to contest female candidates but not by interest. The same thing is found in two female members of the ward committee. As a result, most of the heads of local-level and ward committees are male. In the last local level election, out of heads of 753 local level, only 25 females got elected as head of the local level. This number was 18 in 2017. It shows that the leading position is just made for males.The legislative intent for women’s representation is not just for the minimum but at least 50 per cent and in major posts as well. But the 15th Annual Report (2022) of the National Women Commission shows a very low representation of women in major posts from the last elections at the local level.The constitution of Nepal has highly emphasised ensuring gender justice almost in every sphere in comparison to previous constitutions.The local-level election is conducted on the basis of the Local-level Election Act, 2016. This act has ensured at least 50 per cent of women’s representation in major two posts at the local level and 40 per cent as a whole.Section 17(4) of the act states that while nominating either for head or deputy head of the local level, the political parties should arrange in such a way that at least a candidate for any one of two head positions should be women. At the same time, the further elaboration of the provision states that if the political parties contest for only one post of the head or deputy head of the local level, the above-mentioned provision will not be compulsory. Here we see the loopholes in the law. The same is found in the nomination of ward members as well which hampers women’s representation.The spirit of the law is to increase the meaningful representation of women but the play of parties in loops of law has hampered it. For that it should be provisioned that even an alliance of parties should not affect their representation, the reserved seat for females can be one of the solutions as well. So that in major positions, the political parties only contest female candidates and obviously one of the females will win.“It has been a busy few months for me. But I always like coming back home and eating food prepared by my mother and spending time with family,” says Waters from his home in North Carolina.Curtis Waters known as Abhinav Bastakoti, burst onto the scene with Stunnin in 2020. The song became so popular, it changed his life. Since then, he has been constantly on the move, creating music and touring extensively across the US as he strives to create music that resonates with people from different walks of life.Now, Waters intends to carry on with his passion, hoping to touch the hearts of people through his music. He also aspires to extend his reach to Nepal, with the desire to perform a show for his fans in the country where he was born.“So many Nepalis come to my show. I don’t know why but as I have aged, I have started developing connections with Nepal and Nepali,” he says adding he makes foreigners say Jay Nepal during his shows.Since his childhood, Curtis Waters has harboured a deep interest in music and dreamt of achieving popularity through it. And to an extent, he has realised his dream.All of this started when he came to Nepal when he was 14 years old for his Bratabandha. Given the poor internet connectivity and limited social connections, he began entertaining himself with the music production software on his laptop eventually learning to create beats.“I had had my first break up and wanted an escape. I found it through music,” said Waters.As he returned to the US, he started to spend most of his time inside his room making music instead of going to school.“I did not enjoy school. I only went to make my mom happy,” he said.This is why as soon as he returned from school, he would rush to his room and sit in front of his computer to make music.While other children of his age were busy watching cartoons and playing outdoors with their friends, Waters was engaged in making music and performing other creative things. Despite his love for music, he did not want to study music. A free-spirited person, Curtis Waters did not want to be bounded by rules. Having witnessed numerous individuals who have studied music struggle to create good music, he felt compelled to chart his own path and do things his own way.“I love that I have been able to do it my way. Everything I needed to know was on the internet and I made use of that,” he says.His dedication to music has been yielding remarkable results. His breakout hit Stunnin’ achieved significant recognition, reaching the impressive #3 position on Rolling Stone magazine’s Breakthrough 25 Chart for June 2020. Moreover, the song’s success extended beyond music charts, as it was even featured in a Mercedes-Benz advertisement.“Sometimes I look back and think how crazy all that was,” he says adding he did not expect the song to do so well.Curtis Waters continues to be asked how and why Stunnin’ achieved such success, but he finds it challenging to answer the question, given that he, himself, did not particularly like the song.“I made this song secretly inside a locked room so that nobody could hear such a stupid song. Despite the song sounding stupid I uploaded it without any reason during lockdown.”Waters believes that the song’s popularity was influenced by the right timing. During the lockdown, when people were feeling down and confined to their homes all day, they came across a fun song. The timing coincided with the rising popularity of TikTok, and many people created TikTok videos using the song, which further contributed to its success.“I do think luck also played a role. If I had released it now I do not think it would have done so well,” he says.Since then, many things have changed in Curtis Waters’ musical career, with the most significant transformation evident in his song-making process. He acknowledges going through various phases, including times when he pursued commercial success and attempted to create a song like Stunnin’. However, his approach has evolved, and he no longer prioritises chasing commercial hits, opting for a different musical direction.“At this moment I’ve found more fulfilment ignoring external validation and making art that feels authentic to me,” says Waters.Following the release of his debut album Pity Party in 2020, Curtis Waters has now launched a new album titled The Bad Son.Waters describes Bad Son as an album that resonates with his personal journey, symbolising his journey from Nepal to Canada at the age of 10, a move he made with his family. Through his new album, Curtis Waters seeks to make his younger self proud for the journey he undertook, moving to a new country from his native land, adapting to a unique culture, and bravely confronting racism along the way.“This album is like a movie. The songs included in the albums do not represent different genres but different scenes. In one song the singer is at a club and in another song he is somewhere else,” he says. The theme for this album was developed when he was 14 years old. But he was only able to execute it aged 23.Waters reveals that he has been an emotional person since childhood, and The Bad Son album contains elements reflecting this aspect of his personality. He fondly recalls spending time with his father, writing poems together as a way to distract himself and express the depth of his emotions. The album serves as a heartfelt expression of his inner world and experiences.“When I was a kid I used to feel lonely and depressed. To overcome those feelings, I occupied myself in creative activities,” he said.Despite gaining popularity through his music, Curtis Waters found it challenging to manage his newfound fame at the beginning. The pressures and demands that come with being in the public eye has been overwhelming and he says he is leaning to deal with it.“Initially it made me anxious and I found it difficult but now that it’s all settled down it’s not difficult at all,” says Waters. “I’m not famous enough for it to make a huge impact on my day-to-day life I still feel like the same person.”Instead of using the name given by his parents, Curtis Waters opted for a new name. The primary reason behind this decision was to connect and resonate with a broader foreign audience.When Waters moved to Canada, nobody would understand his name. That made it hard for him which is why in his teens he gave himself a new name which everyone could understand.“I also picked a Western name to be safe from racism. But these days I don’t like this name because it was the name I kept out of fear,” says Waters.With growing time he says he has begun understanding the importance of his real identity. That is why he wants to make songs for the Nepali audience too. But he does not feel comfortable doing so as his Nepali is not that great.“I left Nepal when I was 10. I speak Nepali like a 10-year-old. I do not have the confidence right now but I hope with time I can express myself in Nepali,” he said.In his effort to connect with his roots, Curtis Waters intends to visit Nepal and spend time in the country. He has a strong desire to immerse himself in the culture, learn the language, and use this experience as inspiration to write songs that resonate with his Nepali heritage.“I really want to do that. Hopefully, things will align for me to do that,” he said.Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal will be visiting China in September.Minister for Foreign Affairs, NP Saud said Dahal will be going to China in the third or the fourth week of September.“Preparations are in place for the prime minister to visit China,” said Saud.Dahal recently went to India and met his Indian counterpart, Narendra Modi.Speaker Devraj Ghimire is holding a discussion with top leaders of major political parties regarding the removal of obstruction at the House of Representatives.The discussion is scheduled to be held on Monday, said Ghimire’s secretariat.On Sunday, Speaker Ghimire engaged in discussions with the chief whips of major political parties regarding the matter. However, due to the unchanging stances of both the ruling and opposition parties on the 100 kg gold smuggling case, the meeting has been postponed to Monday.The Speaker has summoned a meeting with the senior leaders of the major political parties for Monday at noon, aiming to resolve the deadlock in the parliament, according to his secretariat.During the meeting on Sunday, the chief whips of the ruling parties expressed the view that there was no requirement to establish a high-level investigation committee for probing corruption cases, including the gold smuggling case. They asserted that the government agencies possessed sufficient capability to undertake necessary actions in this regard.The main opposition, the UML, has been obstructing both houses calling for the formation of a high-level investigation committee.Following that, Ghimire, on August 1, adjourned the house until August 7.This moral, ethical and legal minefield has always garnered controversy and has the potential to rock the very foundation of culture and prevalent society.Euthanasia has divided society and the country which have instituted functional systems or are in the process of introducing one have been very cautious and have introduced the term sensitively. The process has been ongoing with society members’ participation and the discussions have been open. Thus introduced processes have been all-encompassing, morally ethically and legally binding.Questions might arise about the need for such a process, this is centred on the right of individuals to a dignified, painless death. The debates on the civil rights of an individual have processed to euthanasia. Rapid development in medical investigations and therapeutics together with improvement in quality of life has increased life expectancy globally. This longevity is welcomed and enjoyed till one remains functional physically and mentally. When old age becomes more and more care dependent then one tends to lose the desire to live. The situation becomes worse when one is inflicted with life-threatening chronic diseases like cancers and incapacitating diseases like Alzheimer’s, multiple sclerosis, parkinsonism, last stages of COPD, and renal diseases where death is imminent albeit with prolonged suffering.So global consciousness was awakened to address the plight of these individuals, where advocates were questioning the rights of these individuals for painless death. The process was started long back with the choice for the addition of DNR in the chart of old patients, which implies do not resuscitate in the case when the heart stops beating. We as medical professionals have counselled family members about switching ventilators in brain-dead patients. These chronically incapacitated patients wanted the right to choose death at their chosen time.As these are responsible procedures legally and medically, binding criteria are set. Counselling and deliberation to arrive at a decision are given such that when such a decision is made all parties involved are accepted. This is not a hasty process and only a few countries like France, whose service has been functional and Australia which is to introduce it this year. This process is to start when patients argued about their rights and asked lawmakers and parliamentarians for a painless exit, when despite all medical interventions and therapeutics all they were waiting for was a painful, debilitating prolonged, uncertain wait for death. They wanted the last right as an individual for a dignified death, after finalising all their affairs and after proper goodbyes to their loved ones. The grieving families were also all accepting because planned death spared them to withstand their loved ones suffering and slowly fading away. This made the grieving process a bit bearable and a bit more easily.Nepal is in the time frame when Nepali society needs to be introduced to euthanasia. Such that healthy robust discussion is started, we as a society need to start thinking about how as a society we want to progress. Nepal like the rest of the world has an increasing elderly population and increasing prevalence of these incapacitating incurable chronic diseases. So we are bound to face a similar situation as West sooner or later.Introducing such a facility requires first creating awareness and grievance alleviation, which can be started presently.“He harvested different parts and we even ate its seeds. I remember him extracting ghee (clarified butter) from it. He was so adamant about conserving these trees,” says Chepang.As time passed, the family’s interest in the chiuri trees they once cherished dwindled, and sadly, these trees gradually disappeared. Alternately, Chepang developed a strong passion for beekeeping. However, there was a noticeable decline in honey harvest recently, leaving Chepang and others from the community baffled as they could not pinpoint the cause initially. Eventually, they realised that the decrease in honey production was directly linked to the decline in chiuri trees in the area.Now, the locals are getting back to their roots. Realising the importance of the trees they once did not have much regard for, residents in Silinge have taken proactive steps to incorporate cultivation plans for these trees into their activities. “Our focus is on establishing a sustainable ecosystem that facilitates planting, harvesting, and trading, creating better income opportunities for the community,” says Chepang who adds everyone in the area is now pivoting towards planting and preserving chuiri trees.“I now get why my grandfather was so adamant about saving these trees,” says Chepang.The chiuri trees grow somewhere between 20 to 25 metres in height and are usually seen growing in areas between 300 to 1,500 metres above sea level. In Nepal, it is commonly seen in Makawanpur, Chitwan, Dhading, Jajarkot, and Dadheldhura districts with several pockets richer in number. There have been four sub-species of the plant identified in the country. The species share a deep bond with the Chepang communities that reside in these areas too. “The community used to give chiuri trees as dowry to their daughters. But with the changing times, perspectives and the decreasing number of trees, the tradition has been irregular,” says Dinesh Chepang.The dowry tradition, he says, was set in place because of the many benefits of the chiuri or butter tree (Diploknema Butyracea). Bishnu Prasad Acharya, Divisional Forest Officer Rapti, has been an advocate to talk about chiuri and its importance to not just the Chepang community but to humankind. Acharya says that these trees have numerous benefits. “Its seeds are rich in oil content and are used to produce chiuri ghee. It is used for cooking, used as a lubricant or moisturiser, and can serve as a base for cosmetics due to its high protein and essential fatty acids content (about 55 per cent).”Acharya says the fruit produced from the tree is juicy and nutritious as well.There are lots of benefits. The seeds can be eaten as they are very nutritious, and they can be used to make other food items too even local alcoholic beverages not just humans, animals, birds and insects are also fond of this.“Bats and bees are particularly fond of its seed and nectar. While they are the best pollinator for the chiuri tree too,” says Acharya.But, in unparalleled events, where the community grew interested in beekeeping for honey, they had not connected the role of the bats in the ecosystem and were culturally and socially hunting down the bats, affecting the growth of the trees and the nocturnal animal. However, he says, they are disseminating information about the importance of bats too and encouraging them to protect their numbers too.Acharya says the leaves from these trees can be utilised to craft duna tapari (biodegradable baskets and plates) while the leftover parts can serve as fodder. Additionally, the wood obtained from these trees possesses strength and durability, making it a suitable material for crafting furniture, tools, and various other items.Going beyond the direct uses of these species, Dinesh Chepang explains, “It is known to give more oxygen so it is naturally beneficial and its roots and leaves have more nitrogen too, making it a great fertiliser too. And any leftovers can be fodder for the livestock.”The chiuri tree and its benefits have been deeply connected with the livelihood of the Chepang community. During the Panchayat era, the district administration had given the Chepang community responsibility to take care of the species too. But after the change in government, the change in mindset, the lack of ownership, the change in religion and the growing educational and economic opportunities shifted the priority.According to the Chepang community, there is many generation worth of knowledge linked to the species, including its uses, benefits and need for preservation. But it got lost somewhere.“Now, many individuals, as well as the local government, are making efforts to bring back that awareness and revive proactive efforts to plant and conserve the chiuri plants and forests for a better future.”Acharya sheds light on the opportunities and explains, “The priority shifted once, but now it is time to bring back the knowledge and be a part of the change. We are building awareness through school curriculum and local awareness programmes about the importance of chiuri trees and their conservation to bring back the glory.”Many from the Chepang and other local communities got attracted to other income opportunities, and to bring them back, Acharya says, they need equally viable and better opportunities.“We have been encouraging and advocating to the local and provincial government to make this a priority now. We have asked for the budget and programmes this fiscal year to bring about that very change,” says Acharya.The local government is looking at wards 6, 7, and 8 already.“But I am still pushing for the provincial government to take greater interest. And I am also working for a future where the sector gets a separate department to work on. We have estimated that if the programme gets some Rs 80 to Rs 100 million a year, with some 10 employees, in about just 10 years, we can see that,” says Acharya.But, he stresses, not just government-level interest, going back to the golden age will require conservation efforts and ownership from the locals too. “Efforts are being made to encourage the younger generation to engage in chiuri plantation and harvesting,” he says.Locals are also being explained how the plants could help generate income. This campaign, Acharya believes, will encourage the community to take responsibility.To accelerate the plantation, Acharya wants to highlight how important the species is for the ongoing global efforts against climate change. He claims that the chiuri trees would be the best option for the community to protect itself as well as contribute to the initiative given its climate adaptation prowess. “We do not have research to tell us if climate change has had an impact on the species in the area. But when we talk about climate adaptation, these trees are the best as they check all the boxes that benefit the community and the nation, in a rather shorter period. And that is what we are seeking too.”With the rapidly increasing temperature, he says that the tree’s shade coverage is also higher and gives out higher oxygen. “We can plant up to 120 chiuri saplings in 100 hectares (with a 10×10 coverage) or 600 (with a 6×6 coverage). And as it bears fruits rather fast, we can expect faster results as anticipated too.”Chiuri forests are also great to give shelter to a wide variety of wildlife and encourage biodiversity in the area, he hints.Other than that he adds, that the cascading effects can also be seen as, “In months where these trees do not give fruits, the community can engage in other fruits and vegetable farming, either in terraced/ layered form or in a cyclic nature.”The roots of the chiuri trees spread wide controlling soil erosion, and conserving groundwater levels, and they give out ample nitrogen for other plants to foster as well. And the locals can add other income opportunities as well.It can be further thought at a national level and very well be linked to ecotourism, green economy, and climate finance, he adds.This is not a solitary case as snakebites in Nepal are a medical emergency. According to a journal, an estimated 40,000 people get bitten by snakes annually and among them, little over 3,000 lose their lives. This is only in the 23 districts in the Tarai and does not include cases that are not reported. And the number is rising every year says Hemant Ojha, head of the Zoonotic Department of Epidemiology and Disease Control Division. Most of the people who get bit go to the 88 snakebite treatment centre located in 31 districts across Nepal. Apart from that, there are a few government hospitals that treat snakebites too. The Ministry of Health and Population has been purchasing about 2,000 vials of ‘Antisnake Venom’ from India annually and providing it free of cost for snakebite treatment centres and government hospitals.Despite that, there are a lot of issues as organisations involved are facing a shortage of sufficient anti-snake venom. Additionally, there exists a deficiency in both human resources and infrastructure. The cost of treatment poses a challenge too, particularly for marginalised individuals. Consequently, these individuals are left with the grim choice of either succumbing to the snakebite at home or resorting to seeking treatment from a shaman due to the lack of viable medical options.According to Krishna Acharya, a senior consultant and anesthesiologist at Bheri Hospital, the time it takes for the venom to disperse within humans varies from 30 minutes to as long as 12 hours, contingent on the specific species of the venomous snake.Noteworthy symptoms include stomach ache, vomiting, and respiratory distress. Individuals exhibiting these symptoms should be promptly transported to a medical facility or a specialised snakebite treatment centre for immediate care.Acharya says that if the patient is taken to the hospital within an hour of being bitten by a snake, there is a 90 per cent chance that the patient can be saved. But in Nepal, there is a different practice. Most people in rural Nepal go to a shaman instead of a hospital. People only visit a hospital once the situation is critical as a result snakebite deaths are on the rise.According to the snakebite expert Chhabi Lal Thapa, people are still not well aware of the treatment of snakebites. He informs that in Nawalparasi except for Kali Gandaki Hospital, no private hospital, clinic or college provides treatment for snakebites.Due to the lack of treatment facilities for snakebites in district hospitals, patients of Pyuthan, Dang, Bardiya, and Kailali have to go to Bheri Hospital, travelling for hours. As time is critical when one gets bitten by a snake, they die as they do not get adequate care on time.A similar incident occurred in Pyuthan on June 20. Abhishek Nepali was swiftly taken to Bijurwa District Hospital merely ten minutes after being bitten by a snake. The hospital had both a doctor and a supply of anti-snake venom. Regrettably, the doctor on duty lacked the expertise to administer proper treatment for a snakebite victim. Consequently, the doctor advised Nepali to seek assistance at the district hospital in Dang. But Nepali’s condition deteriorated during the journey, resulting in his death due to the rapid dissemination of the venom throughout his body. Had a proficient doctor been available at the initial hospital, Nepali’s life might have been saved.Although the government provides anti-snake venom for free, the cost of medicine, oxygen, ICU, ventilator and dialysis needs to be paid by the patient. “It cost over Rs 100,000 for the treatment of snakebite,” says Acharya. He further says that Nepal’s policymakers are unaware that snakebite is a health issue for the poor.  “The government has remained indifferent about the pain and suffering that the poor people have to go through due to the snakebite.” According to Acharya, snakebite is a huge health problem in the country but the ministry, political parties and media have not given it much attention.The statistics of the Ministry of Health and Population show that in the fiscal year 2021/22, 926 patients with snakebites reached the hospital for treatment spending around Rs 100,000 on average. This is a huge amount for a family who even struggles to fulfil their basic needs. Hemlal Acharya from Dullu, Dailekh, who travelled to Nepalgunj to seek medical care for his son following a snakebite, said, “In situations where medical resources are not readily available and individuals have to bear the expenses themselves, the treatment costs can range from Rs 500,000 to Rs 700,000.”Madhav Acharya, a resident of Dullu in Dailekh, had to spend a night at his relative’s residence during his journey to India for employment. There he was bitten by a Krait snake while sleeping there. He underwent a 17-day treatment period at both Kohalpur Medical College and Bheri Hospital. His condition was critical, leading to a seven-day stay in the intensive care unit (ICU) and another 10 days on a ventilator. Despite the fact that the expenses for the hospital bed and medications were covered by Bheri Hospital, Madhav incurred a total treatment cost of Rs 250,000.According to public health expert Jeevan Chettri, the government’s focus on the health sector is notably lacking. In such circumstances, matters concerning snakebites are unlikely to receive any form of priority or attention.Chettri says that poor people who are at risk of snakebites have to go through a lot of economic difficulties. They are unable to put forward their problems to policymakers. Due to this, policymakers are not sensitive to the financial problems caused by snakebites. But Ojha, who is also a focal person of the Ministry of Health and Population contradicts Chettri says that the government has been providing free anti-snake venom and training to health workers. Likewise, it is also conducting a public awareness programme in collaboration with the Red Cross Society and Rotary Club. “The government is doing various things to address the problem of snakebite,” says Ojha. “They might be inadequate but it is wrong to say that the  government does not care about the snakebite issue.” However, Chettri says although the government defends itself, even today, poor citizens who have been bitten by snakes are forced to go to a shaman instead of going to the hospital. This condition needs to be studied specifically. Chettri further says that if the government manages a free treatment of snakebites, the number of people losing their life by going to shamans will decrease. “In areas with a high risk of snakebites, the government can assist by offering free insurance to the residents,” says Chettri, “Individuals with health insurance should receive free treatment for snakebites. If the insurance covers all the expenses, the death due to snakebites will decrease and the financial burden of the family members will also be reduced.”Menuka Shahi, nursing officer and focal person of Bheri Hospital says that most of the expenses, including medicine, bed charge and ventilator, of snakebite patients are covered by the health insurance. But the majority of snakebite patients do not have health insurance. Due to the absence of health insurance, they go through a lot to manage fees for the treatment. Experts say that there is a dearth of awareness about snakebite in a place where there is a high risk of it. According to experts, menstruating and pregnant women are more prone to snakebites. Because of the belief that menstruating women should not sleep indoors or on a bed, they are compelled to sleep outside in places like the yard, cattle shed, and even makeshift huts. This harmful practice exposes women to an increased risk of snakebites.In the second week, 15-year-old Hemanti Joshi of Sukhad, Kailali was menstruating and sleeping on the veranda. She was taken to Seti Hospital where she breathed her last.Another pressing issue is the delayed availability of ambulances for patients. Even when ambulances are accessible, individuals often lack information about the hospitals equipped to provide snakebite treatment. This lack of awareness further complicates the situation.A study conducted in 2019 and 2020 by BP Koirala Institute of Health Sciences and experts has shown that 40 per cent of deaths due to snakebites occur in villages. The other 40 per cent die on the way and around 20 per cent die amid the treatment. In 2014, Jhalnath Khanal Institute of Health Sciences was formed to produce anti-snake venom (ASV) in Nepal. Under the initiative of former prime minister Jhalnath Khanal, the foundation also received a grant of around Rs 190 million from the federal government and the Madhesh province government.After receiving the grant money, the foundation purchased about 6.25 acres of land in Lalbandi municipality-1 by spending Rs 700 million. In 2020 the government allotted  Rs 720 million for the foundation but due to the change in the government, they did not receive the grant. The government’s decision to provide the grant for the foundation even received flak from netizens. To overcome the criticism and risk of not getting grants from international donors, the foundation was changed to the National Health Science and Research Council. “The construction of a farmhouse for snake breeding, a laboratory, a one-hundred-bed capacity hospital and an administration building has been stopped due to the suspension of grants for two years,” says Revati Pant, president of the foundation. In point number 71 of the budget statement announced by the Madhesh province government on June 16, it is mentioned that the budget will be arranged in a phased manner for the construction of necessary infrastructure after studying the feasibility of anti-snake venom production. According to Ojha of the Epidemiology and Disease Control Division, Nepal imports 20,000 vials of antisnake venom annually and is sent to snakebite treatment centres and hospitals across the country.“The anti-snake venom imported from India for treating snakebite patients is not as effective as it is in India,” says Sanjeev Kumar Shah, snakebite expert and acting vice-chancellor at BP Koirala Institute of Health Sciences. “Anti-snake venom made from raw material extracted from snakes found in India can pose a risk of reaction when given to patients bitten by snakes in Nepal.” He adds that it would be great if anti-snake venom could be produced in Nepal. Zoologist Kamal Devkota says that except for providing anti-snake venom and three-day-long training to the health workers, the government has not done anything more.  According to Devkota, alongside the government, the donor agencies have also not prioritised the problem of snakebite. He questions, “Why is this problem, not a priority for both the government and donor agencies?”This story was translated from the original Nepali version and edited for clarity and length.Simit Yaad is a multifaceted EP that artfully weaves together an array of emotions. From soulful melodies to heartwarming romantic tunes and beyond, it effortlessly encompasses a diverse range of vibes, ensuring an enchanting musical journey for every listener.Simit Yaad casts a spell with its emotive vocals and bold production. It is like each track becomes a portal to explore diverse facets of the human experience, taking listeners on a reflective journey that intimately connects them with the artist’s distinctive and thought-provoking perspective.The five-track EP kicks off with the title track Simit Yaad. It is an upbeat love song that explores the impact of finite memories of past lovers on present relationships. The poetic lyrics, haunting vocals and ghostly melody create a dreamlike atmosphere. One could say through this song, the band has tried to experiment with sonics.Najar is another love song that delves into the yearning to be with one’s lover, longing to see them, touch them, and feel their presence. The track’s reverberant beat, produced by Aman Karna, perfectly captures the singer’s emotions, enhancing the essence of the song. The lyrics, written by Abhishekh Pokhrel, resonate with the beat, making it a delightful and immersive listening experience. As a music lover, I would love to hear an acoustic version of this song as it takes me back to the old days when pop songs thrived in Nepal.From two love songs, the EP takes on a different route as Ma talks about personal feelings and the road to self-discovery, a theme rarely explored in Nepali music. Over the years, the band has consistently pushed boundaries, setting themselves apart in their pursuit of innovation by delving into topics like this.The song begins with a gentle and tender opening, featuring a simple guitar intro and transitions dynamically changing its rhythm and gradually increasing in intensity, adding a delightful variation that enhances the overall charm of the track.Phosphenes have become renowned for their experimental flair, and this EP effortlessly embodies their unique musical style. In Simit Yaad too, the band blended the elements of indie and EDM in each song, resulting in a harmonious fusion of styles.Their attention to detail shines through in their melodious guitar solos and basslines, adding depth and richness to the compositions. Yes, the EP boasts impressive composition, lyrics, and arrangements, but it is worth noting that the mixing and mastering are equally outstanding. Diwas Gurung, who co-produced the EP with the band, deserves a special mention for his exceptional work in achieving a flawless balance. Through his skillful mixing and mastering, all instruments shine clearly, harmoniously complementing each other, and enhancing the overall listening experience. It is evident that Gurung understands the band having been part of their journey from the very beginning.An example of that is the fourth track Drishya as it leaves a lasting impression on listeners with its captivating guitar and bass parts, setting it apart as a standout track. Lyrically, the song talks about breaking free but its soothing and hypnotic beats take you on a journey. It is safe to say, the music flawlessly captures the emotions of anxiety and the struggle to come to terms with reality.The final track of the album, Antya, brings a pleasant surprise as it showcases the vocal talents of bassist Nirita Yakthumba, instead of the regular vocalist Prajwal Aryal or Abhishekh Pokhrel. Her poignant vocals narrate the story of someone who remains hopeful despite feeling hopeless. The emotional impact of the song is intensified by Yakthumba’s vocal range, which seamlessly transitions from low to high, perfectly complementing the touching lyrics, which she wrote herself. It is another song that calls for self-reflection and contemplation.The song’s arrangement, featuring gentle guitar plucking, subtle synth effects, and soft drum beats in the background, creates a soothing and calming atmosphere that perfectly complements the overall tone and emotion of the track.What sets this EP apart from the band’s other projects is the inclusion of solely Nepali songs. Simit Yaad contains only Nepali songs, veering from their previous projects that also included English songs. This exclusive focus on Nepali lyrics adds a unique and authentic touch to the EP, showcasing Phosphenes’ versatility in exploring diverse musical avenues.To sum things up, Simit Yaad stands as an authentic collection of songs that brilliantly encapsulate the spirit of indie music. Each track exudes a distinct and original sound, showcasing the band’s remarkable creativity. The music that can be heard in Simit Yaad is rarely heard in the Nepali music scene.By the EP here.All photos: PhosphenesPassengers eagerly wait at designated stops, bracing themselves for the battle of finding a seat or even a comfortable standing spot. Amidst the chaotic scenes, it becomes evident that the existing public transportation system is strained beyond its capacity.If you live in Nepal, it is highly probable that you have encountered challenges while travelling in public vehicles, especially on the roads of Kathmandu.The morning and evening hours are notorious for being the busiest and most crowded for buses. The situation becomes more concerning as, despite the people’s safety and capacity limits of the vehicles, conductors often command passengers to shift and accommodate additional people inside. This practice leaves no proper space for standing, leading to overcrowding conditions within the vehicle. Consequently, conflicts and arguments frequently arise between conductors and passengers, further exacerbating the unsafe and unfriendly environment.Moreover, it poses a significant risk to the safety and well-being of passengers. The tightly packed space increases the risk of suffocation, physical harm, and even incidents of theft or robbery. Many individuals have experienced the unfortunate loss of their phones while travelling on buses. These conditions create an environment that compromises the security and comfort of passengers.Additionally, this unmanaged and overcrowded state of public transportation has been identified as one of the main contributors to the rapid spread of Covid 19 in Nepal in recent years. The close proximity among passengers, lack of ventilation, and the difficulty of maintaining physical distancing all contribute to the increased transmission of the virus within these settings. This highlights the urgent need for improved crowd management and adherence to safety protocols in public vehicles.The unmanaged and unmaintained condition of roads has created a significant safety concern for passengers. The poor state of many roads, particularly in remote areas, poses risks to travellers.Due to inadequate maintenance, many roads suffer from potholes and uneven surfaces. The improper tarmacking of roads contributes to an increase in pollution levels, causing breathing problems for the people around. These road conditions can cause discomfort to passengers, but more importantly, they increase the risk of accidents.Moreover, the number of public vehicles is insufficient compared to the demand from the population. As a result, people often have to endure long waiting times to catch a bus. The scarcity of buses not only causes delays in reaching workplaces and schools but also exacerbates the issue of overcrowding when buses finally arrive due to the high number of people waiting.Many have witnessed people not properly following the laws of public vehicle seats. The lack of adherence to proper seating laws by some citizens remains a concerning issue. Despite the clear designation of seats for women at the top of buses, it is disheartening to witness men occupying these seats, disregarding the established rules and showing a lack of respect for women’s rights in these designated spaces.It is important for individuals to show empathy and respect towards those in need and offer a seat, particularly to individuals with younger children and the elderly. By doing so, they demonstrate consideration for the well-being and dignity of fellow passengers who may require seating for reasons of safety, comfort, or mobility.Promoting awareness campaigns that emphasize the importance of following seating regulations, respecting designated spaces for women, and encouraging acts of courtesy towards those who require priority seating can contribute to a more inclusive and considerate public transportation system. Additionally, transportation policies and authorities can play an active role by inspecting regular checks and enforcing these regulations and providing training to bus conductors and staff on promoting and maintaining a safe and respectful atmosphere within public vehicles.The situation demands attention as the virus is spreading rapidly across the country. Eastern Nepal has been hit by it most as the Dharan sub-metropolis was forced to shut down schools to fight the dengue outbreak.While the post-monsoon period has historically been considered the peak season for dengue transmissions, the virus has now entrenched itself, leading to outbreaks throughout the year. This calls for collective action from all citizens to confront and cope with this menacing threat.Dengue is not a new adversary for Nepal; it has wreaked havoc in previous years. In 2022, the country witnessed 88 deaths and over 54,000 infections, with the virus spreading to all 77 districts. Hospitals in the Kathmandu valley were inundated with dengue patients, and basic medicines like paracetamol were in short supply. The alarming death rate from dengue emphasises the urgent need to address the factors that contribute to its deadly impact. Experts cite several reasons for the high death toll, including negligence in case management, delayed adoption of preventive measures, lack of public awareness, and delayed healthcare seeking after infection. The presence of multiple dengue virus serotypes further complicates the situation. To mitigate the impact of dengue outbreaks, a comprehensive strategy must be implemented, addressing these root causes head-on.The responsibility to identify and eliminate mosquito breeding sites rests with all of us. By regularly inspecting and cleaning our surroundings, we can break the transmission chain and protect our families and neighbours.Public awareness plays a pivotal role in our fight against dengue. We must educate ourselves and our communities about dengue symptoms, transmission, and preventive measures. Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus, the mosquitoes responsible for dengue transmission, breed in clean water and bite during day time. Simple measures, such as covering water tanks and properly disposing of plastic containers, can significantly reduce the risk of dengue transmission.Timely detection and access to appropriate medical care are crucial in reducing fatalities. Although there is no specific cure for dengue, early identification of the disease can make a substantial difference in patient outcomes. Healthcare facilities must be equipped to handle potential outbreaks, with a steady supply of essential medications and trained medical professionals to identify and treat dengue promptly. Beyond dengue, our efforts must encompass a holistic approach to address the broader challenge of vector-borne diseases. The same mosquitoes responsible for dengue transmission also carry other life-threatening diseases such as chikungunya, yellow fever, and Zika. Integrated vector management strategies must be adopted to tackle these health threats simultaneously.To combat dengue outbreaks effectively, entomologists stress the importance of sustainable solutions for mosquito control. Proper waste management and regular mosquito breeding site inspections are essential components of these solutions.Embracing sustainable practices will not only combat dengue but also contribute to overall public health and environmental well-being. This battle against dengue requires a united front, with the government and citizens working together. While the government must take the lead in implementing preventive measures and providing healthcare support, citizens must actively participate and support these initiatives. Collaboration, backed by financial and logistical support, is the key to success in combatting this deadly disease.In the face of the looming dengue outbreak and the monsoon’s unpredictable nature, we stand at a crossroads – a choice between complacency and collective action. Let us not wait for tragedy to strike our doorsteps before we act. The time to unite is now, to forge an unbreakable shield against dengue’s deadly advance. Together, we possess the strength to defy this annual scourge, protect our loved ones, and ensure that no life is lost in vain.On this International Youth Day, as we focus on the theme of — Green Skills for Youth: Towards a Sustainable World — it becomes crucial to closely examine the true inclusivity of this movement, particularly from the perspective of youth with disabilities.Do these noble ideals of inclusivity and transformation translate into concrete actions? Are youth movements wholeheartedly embracing the participation of individuals with disabilities, or is their inclusion merely symbolic? These are the pressing questions demanding answers to authentically uncover the vast potential of the progressive youth movement.Amidst the progressive youth movement lies a disheartening truth – individuals with disabilities often find themselves marginalised even within this very movement. It is a perplexing paradox that while youth organisations strive for a more equitable world, they inadvertently cast persons with disabilities as mere symbols of inclusivity, neglecting to acknowledge their profound and meaningful contributions. This unfortunate tendency further ingrains the misconception that disabilities should be put on display, rather than being valued for the unparalleled viewpoints and skills they bring to the table. This leads us to a pivotal question that demands contemplation: are these organisations sincerely contemplating individuals with disabilities for roles of leadership, or are they simply plugging gaps to create a façade of inclusiveness? As we ardently pursue the ideals of an inclusive youth movement, it becomes imperative to meticulously evaluate whether persons with disabilities are being entrusted with substantive leadership responsibilities, transcending the boundaries of mere membership.Can we witness them taking charge in the leadership position of youth councils, actively and influentially engaging in the intricate realms of advocacy and decision-making?In the name of fostering true inclusion, the persistent issue of tokenism looms large, casting a shadow over well-intentioned efforts. While individuals with disabilities are occasionally granted visibility and invited to participate in rallies and public gatherings orchestrated by various organisations, the stark reality often remains obscured: their involvement in shaping policies and strategies remains limited. To embody the essence of inclusion, a mere presence is insufficient; it must penetrate the very core of decision-making processes.Delving deeper into the organisational landscape, it is crucial to scrutinise whether critical discussions on human resources, gender equality, disability, and social inclusion have not only found a place in youth organisations’ policies but have become integral to their ethos. The urgency of this inquiry cannot be overstated. Do these discussions transcend mere lip service, becoming proactive considerations deeply ingrained in the organisational fabric?The present state of affairs underscores a striking contrast between the surface-level token representation and the authentic realisation of inclusivity. Symbolic gestures, while visually impactful, fail to replace the profound influence of genuine involvement. The call for transformation resounds loudly – a transformation that goes beyond the superficial and orchestrates a comprehensive shift. It is our responsibility to cultivate an environment where the voices of individuals with disabilities resonate powerfully and substantively.Amidst the grand proclamations and global declarations made by esteemed international bodies and youth councils, such as the United Nations Youth Council and Youth Committee, a pivotal question emerges: how effectively have we, as youth organisations and movements, translated these commitments into actions that hold significance at the grassroots level? While we proudly espouse the narrative of inclusivity, introspection becomes imperative – we must assess the concrete impact we wield in creating leadership opportunities for individuals with disabilities within our local spheres.Are these commitments fleeting expressions, or do they resonate genuinely through the actions we undertake? The authenticity of our dedication to inclusivity finds its litmus test in the tangible representation of persons with disabilities in positions of influence. Do our actions align with our rhetoric? Are we providing equal avenues for these individuals not only to participate but also to spearhead initiatives that shape inclusive and transformative platforms on a global scale? This introspection prompts us to evaluate the true depth of representation and involvement within our organisations.Progress, undeniably, has left its mark on the canvas of inclusivity. Yet, progress alone falls short of our aspirations. It beckons us to venture further, traversing a landscape where inclusivity transcends mere rhetoric and becomes an intrinsic facet of the youth movement’s identity. The allocation of resources by numerous national and international agencies, earmarked for marginalised segments including those with disabilities, represents a commendable stride toward equity. However, we must delve deeper, questioning whether these gestures truly align with the nuanced needs and multifaceted challenges that define the experiences of this community.Amid pressing concerns related to exclusion, it becomes imperative for us to not only acknowledge but also actively champion instances of authentic inclusivity. A vivid embodiment of this ideal can be witnessed in the remarkable journey of individuals like Kaladhar Bhandari. His exceptional leadership as the Chairperson of the Blind Youth Association Nepal seamlessly intertwines with his role as an executive member of the National Youth Council. However, this narrative extends beyond the individual level. Anita Dhungana, a former executive member of the National Youth Council, and Sarita Lamichhane, renowned for founding Prayatna Nepal, have also left indelible marks while occupying esteemed positions. Notably, Sarita Lamichhane served as a former executive member of the Association of Youth Organizations Nepal (AYON). These exceptional exemplars serve as beacons of hope, underscoring the tangible potential of cultivating inclusive leadership.Nevertheless, the enduring impact and significance of such practices necessitate thoughtful contemplation. We must critically assess whether these appointments of individuals with disabilities are mere superficial gestures or truly integral components of a broader, genuine endeavour aimed at nurturing inclusivity at all levels. Genuine transformation demands an unwavering commitment to consistently and enduringly integrate individuals with disabilities into decision-making and authoritative roles. Superficial gestures of inclusiveness fall short; it is the sustained and authentic representation of persons with disabilities that infuses vitality into a truly comprehensive youth movement. The authenticity of intent should be reflected through actions that go beyond symbolism, thereby fortifying the foundation of an inclusive society. By doing so, we reaffirm our dedication to dismantling barriers, challenging stereotypes, and shaping a world where diversity is not merely acknowledged but fervently embraced.In conclusion, as we celebrate International Youth Day, it is crucial to acknowledge the significant yet often overlooked role of youth with disabilities in shaping our future. Despite the noble ideals of inclusivity and transformation within the youth movement, we must confront the disheartening truth of marginalisation and tokenism faced by individuals with disabilities. True inclusivity demands more than symbolic gestures; it necessitates substantive participation and genuine representation at all levels of decision-making and leadership. The transformative potential of the youth movement lies in the strong commitment to dismantle barriers and embrace diversity wholeheartedly. Let us fortify the foundation of an inclusive society, one where the voices and talents of individuals with disabilities resonate powerfully and where actions reflect the authenticity of our intent. Only then can we earnestly pave the way towards a sustainable world, harnessed by the collective strength of all youth, regardless of ability?However, there have been a fair few Nepali books that have been translated into English as well. These books have helped international readers to know about Nepal, its culture, tradition, politics and others.  If you are someone who wants to read about Nepal but do not have a good grasp of the English language, these 10 books are perfect for you.Authored by Narayan Wagle, Palpasa Café revolves around the story of an artist, Drishya, amidst the Nepali Civil War. This Nepali novel is partly a love story of Drishya and Palpasa, who has returned to the land of her parents after the terrorist attack in the USA on September 11, 2001. The novel is often known as an anti-war novel and exhibits the effects of the civil war on the Nepali countryside that Drishya travels to. Palpasa Cafe is translated into English by Bikash Sangraula. Karnali Blues, written by Buddhi Sagar expresses the struggle of a lower middle-class father in the Far Western Region of Nepal from his son’s lenses. This Nepali novel has a  great presentation as it can move the readers along with the characters in the story.The novel predominantly unfolds through flashbacks, beautifully portraying the evolving perception of the son towards his father. The English translation of the book by Michael Hutt was launched in 2021.   Blue Mimosa is a Nepali book translated from Parijat’s magnum opus Shirish Ko Phool. Shirish Ko Phool depicts the story of a middle-aged man, Suyog Bir Singh who is going through a midlife crisis, also a former World War soldier. He is captivated by Sakambari, a rebellious personality who does not adhere to the conventional norms of how a woman should act or dress.     The book delves into the theme of an empty and meaningless life and an unhealthy obsession with a woman. The Prison is translated by Ann Hunkins from the book Karagar, authored by Banika Giri. The book portrays the story of a female protagonist who is at marriageable age, but due to her brother’s greed for property, her marriage gets delayed, which she discovers later.  Afterwards, she starts feeling lonely and isolated and poses a desire to break the lonely prison of isolation.Shramatan: A Nepalese Migrant Worker’s Memoir by Nepali author BN Joshi is translated into English by Arun Budhathoki. Shramatan is a harrowing ride that millions of Nepalis take every day, a tale of ‘coffin ships’ that take them away from their humble hillside homes to a hostile world of uncertainty and misery.This book is a flashback of the author’s life. The author, BN Joshi, says that he was inspired to write the book after experiencing the harsh realities of foreign jobs in various countries.Song of the Soil is a translated version of Fatsung, written by Chuden Kabimo. This Nepali book was translated by Ajit Baral.  Song of the Soil takes readers to the foothill town of Kalimpong in the Himalayas. The book tells the story of the revolution for a separate state of Gorkhaland in the late 1980s, exposing the faces of violence that occurred during the politically charged Gorkha movement. There’s a Carnival Today is another must-read Nepali book which has been translated by Manjushree Thapa. The Nepali version of the book is written by Indra Bahadur Rai and is called Aja Ramita Cha.The novel is set in the socio-cultural milieu of Darjeeling around the characters Janak Man Yonzan and Sita Shrestha. In the story, Shrestha hails from Dhankuta and is studying in Darjeeling. Janak Man Yonzan returns to Darjeeling from his study in Calcutta. They marry and settle down in Darjeeling. Most of the characters featured in the novel are Nepali-speaking individuals. They follow the culture and religion close to those of some hilly parts of Nepal. The novel explores changing political dynamics of Darjeeling within the context of pre- and post-independence India.The Wake of the White Tiger is translated from Seto Bagh, written by Diamond Shumsher Rana. Greta Rana has translated the book into English.The book portrays the life of Jagat Jung Rana, the eldest son of Jung Bahadur Rana. The book takes the readers to the time when Jung Bahadur Rana was in power and after his demise.Radha was originally written by Krishna Dharabasi and later was translated into English by Mahesh Paudyal. Radha is a winner of a Madan Puraskar, one of the biggest literary awards in Nepal. The novel is an adaptation of the ancient Sanskrit epic Mahabharat, with a heightened focus on the character of Radha.The Nepal Nexus is a translation of  Prayogshala, authored by Sudheer Sharma. The book is translated by Sanjaya Dhakal for Penguin India. The book is a vivid account of Nepal’s political insights related to Nepal’s 10-year conflict, the 2006 people’s movement, the fragile transition that followed, to the Maoists’ subsequent rise to power. The Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal has grounded all Simrik Air helicopters.Gyanendra Bhul, the information officer of the authority, stated that a financial audit carried out by CAAN’s team revealed an unsteady financial situation at Simrik Air. He said their service was also suspended due to a failure to pay the owed amount of Rs 4.6 million to the authority, despite multiple reminders.“We do not think it is safe to allow them to operate when it is uncertain if the airline can pay its staff. We have barred all four helicopters from flying,” said Bhul.CAAN said it will only allow the airlines to operate after it provides assurance it can pay its staff and operate sustainably along with paying what it owes CAAN.According to the Bhul, Simrik Air owes Tribhuvan International Airport Rs Rs 2.79 million, Lukla Airport Rs 1.57 million, Tapejung Airport Rs 437,000 and Simikot Airport Rs 158,000.Birendra Mahato raised the issue in a recent podcast interview, where he said he’d received offers from U.S. and Japanese hunters who wanted to pay millions of dollars to kill a tiger in Nepal. The country represents a rare conservation success story for the big cat, Panthera tigris, whose population here has tripled over the past 12 years.“They told me that we could go into global bidding, and allow the highest bidder to hunt tigers for a month every four to five years,” Mahato said.He pointed out that Nepal would soon face the problem of having too many tigers for its limited space and resources, which could lead to increased conflicts with humans and lack of food for the animals. The money raised from selling hunting could be used for conservation work, he added.“We could charge USD 25 million for every tiger killed,” he said. At that price, the cost of killing five tigers would easily cover the environment ministry’s total budget for the 2023/24 fiscal year.But Mahato’s suggestion and justifications have come under scathing criticism from conservationists, experts and local communities. They say “sport hunting” would be a disastrous move that would jeopardise Nepal’s remarkable achievement in tiger conservation and pose serious ecological and cultural risks.“Hunting just doesn’t work to reduce conflict,” says Mark Elbroch, director of the puma program at global wildcat conservation NGO Panthera.Elbroch led a recently published study proposing five hypotheses for why killing carnivores such as tigers might not just fail to stop their predation of livestock, but could even exacerbate the problem.The study suggests that killing tigers may have unintended consequences such as increasing local tiger density, attracting new or neighbouring tigers who may be less wary about preying on livestock, disrupting the predator-prey balance, causing prey species to change their behaviour and distribution, and creating a false sense of security among people.“When hunters are given guns, and allowed to kill, they can kill any tiger in the habitat,” Elbroch said. “That tiger could have a specific role in the population and its death could have negative impacts on the entire population.”There may be certain traits, such as skin colour, size or even shape that the hunters might prefer, and it’s possible that if they only target such tigers, it could lead to a loss in these traits in the population, conservationists say.Neil Carter, an associate professor of environment at the University of Michigan, who recently studied social networks among tigers in Nepal’s Chitwan National Park using long-term camera trap data, said tigers of different sexes and ages have important roles to play in the social network. That means the loss of individuals central to the network could create disproportionate disruptions to the population.For example, resident adult male tigers play an important role in maintaining the network. They connect different clusters of tigers together as they travel long distances to mate with multiple females. They also protect their territory from other males who might try to mate with their females or kill their cubs. Adult female tigers also have an important role in the network. If they live in a certain area for a long time, they’re more likely to connect to the wider network. They can also pass on their territory to their offspring, which is an advantage for their survival.Another study shows that even the death of one or two tigers, especially females, could trigger a massive decline in the overall population. Female tigers not only give birth to young ones, but also nurture and protect them until they’re capable of living on their own.In the case of cubs, only around 50 per cent survive to the age of dispersal, said Bhim Gurung, a co-author of the study on social networks among tigers.“If the main male tiger dies, the survival rate goes down further as the new male tries to kill all cubs born from the previous male,” says Gurung, from the Nepal Tiger Trust. The survivability of the cubs has important, long-term implications for the viability of the tiger population, Gurung added.In addition to these potential ecological repercussions, hunting of tigers raises important cultural issues for members of local Indigenous communities, especially the Tharu people living around Chitwan.“The indigenous communities living in areas that now fall under the national park were displaced so that the tigers could be saved,” said Birendra Mahato (not related to the environment minister), president of the Tharu Cultural Museum in Chitwan. “The communities have made a lot of sacrifices for Nepal to achieve the goal of doubling its tiger population.”He added that tigers are part of their religious lives and they worship them: “It’s beyond imagination that they would allow anyone to come in with a gun and kill them regardless of the money they offer.”Nepal faces a dilemma of coexisting with tigers, as the big cats’ population has grown from 121 in 2010 to 355 in 2023, thanks to intensive conservation efforts. At the same time, the country’s human population has also expanded in the southern plains, where most tigers live, thanks to a successful malaria eradication program in the 20th century. This has led to more cases of human-tiger conflict, as tigers and humans compete for the same space and resources.Elbroch said he believes that “problem” tigers that attack and kill people should be removed, but only after confirming their identity through genetic tests.Short of such definitive tests, “we need to rely on visible traits, and sometimes we even catch the wrong tiger,” says a former veterinary technician, who asked to remain anonymous. “If we allow hunters to kill the problem tigers, they would be the last people to be able to identify them.”Carter said “problem” tigers are unlikely to be part of the social network, and may have come into conflict with humans because of this. But he also said some of these tigers may play central roles in the network and their removal could have disproportionate impacts on the population structure.Then there’s a question of securing enough food and habitat for the growing population of tigers. However, researchers say there’s a limit to the population growth, and it may have already been reached in Chitwan. A recent study suggests that the ecological carrying capacity for tigers may have essentially been reached in Chitwan due to the limited availability of prey populations in the area.The authors note that prey densities estimated across the plains and hills of the Chitwan-Parsa site can support 177 adult tigers. The 2022 census indicates that the population there has already reached 155. The authors note that given the numbers, only small gains in population may be achieved in the future.“The population will not continue increasing forever,” Elbroch said. “Limiting factors such as availability of prey and various climatic factors will come into play.“But hunting is a terrible idea,” he added. “It’s a fly in the face of the collaborative efforts to save these wonderful animals.”This story first appeared on Mongabay and Onlinekhabar is republishing it under a Creative Commons licence.